Skip Navigation
Services
ADRC Services
Academic or Housing Accommodations and Temporary Accommodations
Accommodations and temporary accommodations are for those with disabilities or a temporary disability (broken arm, concussion, etc.)
Explore getting accommodations or temporary accommodaitons.
Deaf and Hard of Hearing Services
Interpreter request form and more
View our Deaf and Hard of Hearing Services
Office Hours
Our Team allows ADRC-registered students to schedule Office Hours with us for any questions or concerns.
Make an Office Hours Appointment
Informational Appointment
Please call or email the ADRC to schedule an informational appointment.
Email:
adrc@ou.edu
Phone:
(405) 325-3852
Accommodation Requests for Outside Entities
In order for the Accessibility and Disability Resource Center to release information regarding services and/or documentation on file, the student must sign and email the
Consent for Release form (PDF)
to the ADRC. Requests are processed in the order in which they are received, with most documents being sent within 5-15 university business days of when we received the signed Consent for Release form. Please allow sufficient time between contacting our office and the deadline for submission, as requests received fewer than 15 university business days out are not guaranteed to be completed prior to the submission deadline.
Standardized Assessments
If a student requires accommodation on a standardized assessment such as the GRE, GMAT, LSAT, etc., it is the student's responsibility to contact the testing board to obtain information about their accommodation procedures. There is typically a request form that is required by these entities and many have recency requirements for documentation.
Another Institution
If a student requires accommodation for courses at a different institution, it is the student's responsibility to contact the disability services office at the other institution to obtain information about their accommodation procedures. Often, a Letter of Accommodation from our office and/or the student's documentation will meet the new institution's needs.
Back to top
Accessibility and Disability Resource Center
University Community Center
730 College Avenue
Norman, OK  73019
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/12/2024 by
Accessibility and Disability Resource Center
:
adrc@ou.edu