Skip Navigation
Lead and Volunteer
OU Homepage
Search OU
The University of Oklahoma
Leadership & Volunteerism
LEAD Team
The Big Event
OU Standard Award
Campus Awards
Leadership and Volunteerism provides educational programming and opportunities for students to “make a difference.” Through numerous programs and activities, L&V helps students further develop their leadership skills, assists with personal growth through student learning and connects students to volunteer opportunities in the local community and beyond.
OU LEAD Team is a peer Leadership Education and Development team. LEAD Team students serve as facilitators of icebreakers and teambuilding exercises and as ambassadors for the Office of Leadership and Volunteerism.
Lead Team Request
The Big Event is the University of Oklahoma's official day of community service. Every spring, over 4,000 students, faculty, and staff go out across the Norman and Greater Oklahoma City metro area for one day of service.
Learn More Here
This award is in connection with the Oklahoma Standard, the Oklahoma City National Memorial & Museum campaign, committed to promoting these three acts – service, honor and kindness.
Learn More Here
The office of Leadership & Volunteerism coordinates two annual recognition ceremonies - Outstanding Senior Ceremony each fall and the Campus Awards Program each spring.
more information
Skip Side Navigation
Home
Leadership
Volunteerism
Awards
President's Community Scholars
Contact Us
GivePulse
Weekly Newsletter
Engage
Make a difference.
The Office of Leadership & Volunteerism is committed to developing engaged leaders through leadership programs and volunteer opportunities.
Follow us on Instagram, Twitter & Facebook | @OUleadandvol
Twitter
Facebook
Tweets by @OUleadandvol
Leadership & Volunteerism
Oklahoma Memorial Union
900 Asp Ave., Suite 247
Norman, OK 73019-4054
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Accreditation
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources & Offices
OU Report It!
Follow L&V
facebook
twitter
instagram
more
Updated 8/26/2024 by
Leadership & Volunteerism
:
leadandvolunteer@ou.edu