Skip Navigation
Student Financial Center
We're here to help!
Our team wants to answer your financial questions:
How to submit missing documents, verification requirements, and other FAFSA questions
When and where to expect your first OU bill
How to use the OU payment plan and setup Authorized Users
Understanding the charges on your Bursar account
How to obtain additional funding sources
OU's Student Financial Center’s focus is to eliminate unnecessary barriers to college access and completion. Our goal is to simplify the financial aid process as much as possible, and to make sure students are always engaged and aware of the next step. Our office allows us to reach students earlier and more efficiently, freeing up time for our Student Service Experts to have important conversations with students about their individual situations and what needs to be done to help them persist and succeed.
Scholarships
OU offers a variety of scholarships for prospective and current students. Visit our Scholarships page to learn more.
Scholarships
Student Forms
Find financial forms to be submitted electronically or in person at the Student Financial Center.
View Forms
Special Circumstances
If you have encountered a special circumstance that has affected your financial situation, we're here to help.
Next Steps
Apply for a Federal Work-Study Position
Did you know
federal work-study (FWS)
isn’t just for on-campus jobs? Community Service Learning (CSL) allows eligible students to work for OU partner non-profit agencies. Through CSL, students can earn up to $15 per hour while giving back to the community.
Are you an OU Online student? Do you have questions about financial aid?
The Department of OU Online Financial Aid
is here to help students attend college with peace of mind, so you can focus on your degree. Get in contact with us today
FAQs: 2024-2025 Tuition Increase
OU is raising tuition and mandatory fees
for undergraduate and graduate students in OU Norman campus and Law programs. The new rates will be effective for the Fall 2024 semester.
Payment Guide
This guide provides a brief explanation of student account charges, flat-rate tuition and banked hours, tuition waivers, payment dates, and billing. You'll also find an example of an OU eBill (account statement), so you can see a preview of how we display charges, aid disbursements, and other payments. Your fall semester eBill will be available online the first week of August in One.
View the Payment Guide (pdf)
Office Location
OU Student Financial Center
1000 Asp Ave, Room 105
Norman, Oklahoma 73019
Payments should be mailed to this address.
Office Hours
Hours
: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Monday through Friday
Phone
: 405-325-9000
Fax
: 405-325-7608
Email
:
sfc@ou.edu
Quick Links
Bill Pay (Student)
Bill Pay (Authorized User)
CASH
FAFSA Verification
Work Assistance Tuition Waiver
Pay online with eCheck
9 Things to Know About Money
2024 - 2025 Payment Guide (pdf)
Student Financial Center Survey
OU Federal School Code - 003184
Student Financial Center
Buchanan Hall, Room 105
1000 Asp Ave
Norman, OK 73019-4071
Phone: 405-325-9000
Email: sfc@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 7/5/2024 by
Student Financial Center
:
sfc@ou.edu