Skip Navigation
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
NEWS
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director
By
Bonnie Rucker
brucker@ou.edu
Date
Dec. 20, 2024
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLA. –
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center (HHDC) at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
“We are thrilled to welcome Dr. Potthoff to the Harold Hamm Diabetes Center,” said Jed Friedman, Ph.D., director of HHDC. “As a distinguished neuroscientist, his pioneering work bridges the crucial intersection of brain health and metabolic diseases. His expertise opens exciting new avenues for understanding and treating diabetes, and his leadership will significantly enhance our mission to find a cure and improve lives.”
As deputy director of the HHDC, Potthoff will be responsible for helping guide pilot grants and research events such as the Metabolic Research Conference and the Diabetes Research Symposium, as well as representing the center’s vision, direction and investment opportunities.
Potthoff returns home to Oklahoma and OU, where he graduated Summa Cum Laude in 2003.  He then earned his doctorate from the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center and subsequently performed a Howard Hughes Postdoctoral Fellowship. In 2012, he joined the faculty in the Department of Neuroscience and Pharmacology and the F.O.E. Diabetes Research Center at the University of Iowa. His primary research interests are the role of liver-derived hormones, termed hepatokines, in regulating systemic energy and nutrient homeostasis through their actions on the brain. Based on his work, Potthoff was awarded the Distinguished Scholar Award at the University of Iowa and received the Roy J. Carver Professorship in Neuroscience and Pharmacology. In addition to his research, Potthoff served as the Molecular Medicine Graduate Program Director at the University of Iowa.
About the University of Oklahoma
Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university located in Norman, Oklahoma. As the state’s flagship university, OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. For more information about the university, visit
www.ou.edu
.
Recent News
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 20, 2024
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
Read more
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
James George, M.D., and Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
Read more
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
More OU News
OU News
339 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73069
marcomm@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/20/2024 by
OU News
:
cmshelp@ou.edu