Skip Navigation
Graduate College
Your Future Awaits
Pursue your passion in one of the University of Oklahoma’s more than 260 master’s and doctoral-level majors. Build your reputation and expand your boundaries at a university focused on holistic education. Our positive and engaged community prepares students to succeed. We advocate for you and your future, celebrate your innovations, and provide the one-on-one attention you deserve.
The OU Graduate College ensures academic quality and consistency, ensuring you receive the support you deserve to pursue your passion. From coaching and mentoring to policy and academic practices, the Graduate College supports and celebrates you. Are you ready to enhance your future opportunities?
Apply
Begin your journey with the University of Oklahoma's Graduate College
Apply Now
Graduate Student Spotlight
Boushra Ajeeb
Meet Boushra, a Ph.D. candidate from Lebanon who came to OU for something more. Boushra found a sense of community within the Stephenson Biomedical Engineering Department. Her determination, hard work, and departmental support have allowed Boushra to research regenerative knee cartilage and raise her son.
To delve deeper into Boushra's inspiring journey, we invite you to watch our Graduate Student Spotlight video.
"The goal of the OU Graduate College is to guide, support, and enhance the educational experience of every graduate student at the university. We value all scholars within the university and want your experience to affect you and your community in the best possible way."
-Randy Hewes
Dean of the OU Graduate College
Virtual Tours
Experience the University of Oklahoma from anywhere in the world via our virtual college tours. Step into the Sam Noble Museum and Biomedical labs, study for finals in the Zarrow Family Faculty and Graduate Student Center, or take a stroll down the South Oval.
Biomedical Lab
Tour
Sam Noble Lab
Tour
Graduate Center
Tour
South Oval
Tour
Financial Support
Explore the many ways OU helps support graduate students.
Find Financial Support
Explore Programs
Browse all graduate majors and disciplines available at the University of Oklahoma.
Explore Programs
Graduate College Bulletin
Look up deadlines, degree requirements, and other resources available to all graduate students.
Go To GC Bulletin
42
Online Master's Programs
155
Master's Programs
78
Doctoral Programs
62
Graduate Certificates
In The News
Impact
Meteorology Field Work Offers Life-Changing Opportunities for OU Students
June 25, 2024
Students from OU's School of Meteorology are out in the field conducting atmospheric research year round. Those opportunities can shape their educations and their future careers.
Read more
Meteorology Field Work Offers Life-Changing Opportunities for OU Students
OU Launches Entrepreneurship and Innovation Master’s Program
May 08, 2024
The University of Oklahoma’s Price College of Business is launching a new hybrid master’s program to help working professionals, entrepreneurs and innovators learn how to create and scale a new business, either in an existing company or as a startup.
Read more
OU Launches Entrepreneurship and Innovation Master’s Program
More News
OU Professors, Graduate Student Build Tool for State Lawmakers to Estimate Cost of Legislation
April 18, 2024
University of Oklahoma faculty and a graduate student in the Department of Sociology built a cost estimation tool for the state to view the cost of possible legislation by accounting for a wide variety of factors such as geography and staffing.
Read more
OU Professors, Graduate Student Build Tool for State Lawmakers to Estimate Cost of Legislation
Winners announced for OU Three Minute Thesis competition
February 27, 2024
The University of Oklahoma Graduate College named Ami Frost, graduate student in the Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences, winner of the Three Minute Thesis competition for her presentation “Different by Degrees: Relationship Quality Differences by Level of Education.”
Read more
Winners announced for OU Three Minute Thesis competition
Celebrating International Women and Girls in STEM Day with Chhandosee Ganguly
February 11, 2024
When Chhandosee Ganguly was in 4th grade, a class assignment shifted the entire trajectory of her professional career.
Read more
Celebrating International Women and Girls in STEM Day with Chhandosee Ganguly
Contact Us
Couldn't find what you were looking for? Have any questions? Give us a call or
send us an email
and we'll help you!
Contact Information
Robertson Hall (Room 213)
731 Elm Avenue, Norman, OK 73019
Phone: (405) 325-3811
Graduate College
Robertson Hall, Room 213
731 Elm Avenue
Norman, OK 73019
(405) 325-3811
Site Edits:
gradwebteam@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/4/2024 by
Graduate College
:
gradinfo@ou.edu