Skip Navigation
Enterprise Risk Management
OU Homepage
Search OU
The University of Oklahoma
Skip Side Navigation
Home
Insurance
Workers' Compensation
Special Events
Policies and Youth Protection
Building Resource Coordinator
Quick Reporting Aid
Safety Scooter and Carts
Other University Safety Links
Newsletter Archive
ERM Team/Contact Us
Enterprise Risk Management
WELCOME TO THE OFFICE OF ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk Management is the systematic process of managing an organization's risk exposures to achieve its objectives in a manner consistent with public interest, human safety, environmental factors, and the law. It consists of the planning, organizing, leading, coordinating, and controlling activities undertaken with the intent of providing an efficient pre-loss plan that minimizes the adverse impact of risk on the campus's physical and financial resources. The University of Oklahoma Office of Enterprise Risk Management is an important part of Administration and Finance, serving the Norman Campus. The Office of Risk Management is charged with developing, coordinating, and recommending risk management programs, policies, and procedures in loss prevention, property, and casualties to include on-campus accidents and injuries. The office is further responsible for the processing of claims and submission of all required reports. The office conducts business in accordance with the State of Oklahoma Office of Management and Enterprise Services Policies, as well as the Risk Management Division Rules and Regulations.
The Office of Risk Management works closely with Campus Police, Campus Safety, Legal Counsel, Environmental Health and Safety offices, and others. A member of URMIA (University Risk Management and Insurance Association)
Incident or Issue? Not Sure Who To Contact?
Try Our 'QUICK REPORTING AID' Page.
We Are Here To Help You!
NOW PRESENTING - ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT ROADSHOW
Would you like to learn more about Enterprise Risk Management and how our department can help YOU? Schedule a Risk Management Road Show by clicking the button below and we will come to you! We can provide a 30- 60 minute presentation for your department and discuss Risk Management, Insurance, Workers’ Compensation, and any other risk related topic. Just let us know what you need. We are here to help!
Click here to schedule your presentation
CHECK OUT OUR ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT NEWSLETTER
ERM 4th Quarter Newsletter 10/2024 (pdf)
Want to be added to our Newsletter Distribution list? Email us!
Add Me To The Newsletter Distribution List
OU REPORT IT!
At OU, fostering an environment of integrity, respect, and the highest ethical standards is a top priority. Each member of the OU community shares the responsibility of ensuring these values are firmly upheld and concerns are promptly addressed.  The reporting hotline – OU Report It! – provides a simple and anonymous way for employees, students, and community members to report concerns related, but not limited, to: Human Resources, Academics, Safety, Student Affairs, Accounting and Financial, Regulatory/Policy Compliance, Institutional Equity, Athletics and Research.  The hotline is hosted by Navex Global, an independent third party, to provide an avenue to confidentially report suspected wrongdoing or unethical behavior without the fear of retaliation.  Violations or concerns may be submitted 24 hours a day through the following methods:
Phone:
(
844) 428-6531
Online:
The OU Report It! website has been redesigned to make it easier to submit concerns. To make a report, select the appropriate campus below:
OU Norman Campus:
ou.ethicspoint.com
OU-Tulsa:
outulsa.ethicspoint.com
Mobile:
The OU Report It! hotline’s new mobile intake feature makes the reporting process even easier and faster. Access the mobile intake by scanning this QR code:
Enterprise Risk Management Department
660 Parrington Oval, Room 314
Norman, OK  73019
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Accreditation
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources & Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 10/24/2024 by
Enterprise Risk Management Department
:
risk@ou.edu