Skip Navigation
McCasland Foundation Gives $10 Million for New OU Residence Halls
NEWS
Members of the McCasland family, the McCasland Foundation, and the University of Oklahoma celebrated the gift and toured the building’s construction during an event on Dec. 12, 2024.
McCasland Foundation Gives $10 Million for New OU Residence Halls
Date
Dec. 16, 2024
Media Contact
Marketing and Communications
(405) 549-9238
ounews@ou.edu
NORMAN, OKLA.
–
The University of Oklahoma has received a transformative $10 million gift from the McCasland Foundation to support the construction of two new first-year residence halls on the former Adams Center site. In honor of this gift, the north hall will be named McCasland Hall.
“The McCasland Foundation has been an incredible partner to OU for generations,” said OU President Joseph Harroz Jr. “From the McCasland Field House to their generous contributions to several academic areas, the McCasland family has made a meaningful impact across the university. With this latest gift, our students will gain a best-in-class living environment that enhances their OU experience from day one, setting the stage for lifelong connections and future achievements.”
Since its establishment in 1952, the McCasland Foundation has generously supported higher education, social services and community enhancement. In 2001, the foundation made a significant donation to name OU’s Howard McCasland Field House, a tribute to Thomas Howard McCasland, a distinguished OU alumnus and athlete who earned the OU Letzeiser medal and excelled as a two-sport athlete, serving as captain of the 1916 basketball team and a valuable football team member.
The new residence halls will feature multiple lounges, study spaces, music rooms, storm shelters and community spaces that are designed to foster a welcoming and close-knit environment for approximately 550 students. The north hall is expected to open in fall 2025, with the south hall following in fall 2026.
This new $10 million gift also serves to honor Howard’s children, Tom McCasland Jr. and Mary Frances McCasland Maurer Michaelis, proud OU graduates. By naming the new residence hall, the McCasland Foundation further cements the family's enduring legacy within the university community.
The new residence halls come at a time of increased enrollment at OU. When the plan for new student housing was originally drafted during fiscal year 2021, OU officials expected a student population growth rate of 1% per year. Since that time, the size of OU’s freshman classes has increased by approximately 20%. This August, OU welcomed 5,593 freshmen, the university’s largest freshman class ever.
“Research shows that first-year students who live on campus not only achieve greater academic success but also feel more connected to their peers and the broader university community,” said Jeff Blahnik, vice president for the division of enrollment management and chief enrollment officer at OU. “Our new residence halls are thoughtfully designed to create a welcoming, small community atmosphere where new students can truly feel at home. Thanks to the generous support of the McCasland Foundation, we are able to bring this vision to life and provide an enriching environment for our students.”
Adams Center demolition began in May 2023. Adams was the first and oldest of the three residence towers on campus, named for K.S. “Boots” Adams, who was the former board of directors’ chair for Phillips Petroleum Co. The original Adams Center had a unique design that featured four separate towers, one of which was named McCasland Tower in honor of the McCasland Foundation’s support.
Future phases of the housing master plan will eventually replace Walker and Couch buildings.
About the University of Oklahoma
Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university located in Norman, Oklahoma. As the state’s flagship university, OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. For more information about the university, visit
www.ou.edu
.
About the OU Foundation
The University of Oklahoma Foundation is an independent charitable organization that facilitates and manages philanthropic gifts to support the University of Oklahoma. With a culture of integrity, skill and persistence, we align the passions of donors and our alumni with the indelible mission of the University of Oklahoma.
Recent News
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 20, 2024
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
Read more
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
James George, M.D., and Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
Read more
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
More OU News
OU News
339 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73069
marcomm@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/17/2024 by
OU News
:
cmshelp@ou.edu