Skip Navigation
OU Police Department
Announcements
Clery Act Compliance
The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act) is federal law that requires colleges and universities across the United States to annually disclose information about crime on and around their campuses. The purpose of the Clery Act is to provide the campus community with timely, accurate and complete information about crime and the safety of campus so that they can make informed decisions to keep themselves safe.
To learn more about Clery Act compliance at OU, please visit
https://www.ou.edu/clery
.
Register E-scooters and Bikes
Register your bicycle, electric bicycle, or electric scooter with OU Parking and Transportation Services. This will help prevent theft and will assist OUPD with recovery if found.
To register, go to the
Parking and Transportation Office
, located on the first level of the Jenkins Avenue Parking Garage. If registering an e-bike or e-scooter, you will need to know the top speed of the bike/scooter and the battery voltage, in addition to the make, model, and serial number.
Annual Security Report Available
The University is pleased to share the
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report 2024/2025
(ASFR).
The ASFR includes information for the Norman, Health Sciences and OU-Tulsa campuses. The report is designed to keep all members of the University of Oklahoma community informed about safety and security resources on their campus. The report also contains crime and university policy violation statistics and fire safety statistics for on-campus student housing.
Crime Alerts
Saturday, Nov. 23, 2024
Reported Crime:
Robbery
OUPD Report #:
2024-11660
Date & Time:
between 10 a.m. on Nov. 8 and noon on Nov. 10
Location:
Bike rack near Couch Restaurants
Incident Details:
Victim reported being assaulted and robbed of their cell phone and wallet.
Suspect Information:
Suspects unknown. Based on video surveillance, two black males; one in gray sweatshirt, braided hair; and one short hair, beard, dark sweatshirt and blue jeans.
Police Investigative Results:
The investigation is ongoing.
Crime Prevention Tips / Safety Considerations:
If you are assaulted, immediately go to a safe location and report the crime to law enforcement.
If you observe an assault in progress, stay calm and contact law enforcement.
Not every person you meet has good intentions. Be cautious of strangers and keep a safe distance.  There is safety in numbers, so travel with friends.
Be a good witness:  It is important to recall what you observed and provide as many details as possible    to law enforcement such as: the sex, race, age, height, hair color, clothing, tattoos, scars of any suspects and a description of the make and model of any vehicle used in the crime and its license plate if possible.
Do not attempt to apprehend and suspects or perpetrators of crime
Crime Log & Open Records Requests
Citizen Connect Portal
The Citizen Connect portal serves as the daily crime log for the Norman Campus. The portal is a collaboration with the Norman Police Department and individuals may search information regarding crime reports on campus and in the City of Norman.
Access the
Citizen Connect Portal
.
Next Request Portal
Open records requests should be submitted through the Open Records Office's onliine portal, NextRequest.
To access the portal and make a request, please visit
https://www.ou.edu/openrecords
.
OU Police Department
2775 Monitor Ave.
Norman, OK 73072
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/17/2024 by
OU Police Department
:
oupd@ou.edu