Skip Navigation
Accessibility Statement
Web Accessibility
All Web content and electronic publications, to the extent feasible, should be made accessible to people with disabilities. If accessibility is not feasible, the information should be available by alternative means. University web sites may be subject to the State of Oklahoma HB2197; Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; the Americans with Disabilities Act; and University non-discrimination policies. Web account holders are responsible for verifying that their pages meet all university requirements including accessibility guidelines. Additional information on Oklahoma Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility law is available
at this link.
Section 508
and HB2197 are only a minimum standard for accessibility and webpages. Developers are encouraged to go beyond the minimum whenever possible. The Marketing and Communications web team is the central point of contact for Web-related accessibility questions:
cmshelp@ou.edu
.
Web Accessibility Link
Each University web site that provides entry to members of the public must contain an "Accessibility" link to this page which contains the university's Web Accessibility Statement and contact information for the university's Accessibility Coordinator.
This additional line should appear in all pages that promote campus events or programs: "Accommodations on the basis of disability are available by contacting (phone; name and address are desirable but optional) by (date, or as soon as possible)."
Web Accessibility and Usability Testing
To ensure that University websites are designed with consideration for the different types of internet connections available and user groups, web developers are responsible for testing their websites for accessibility and usability. The Marketing and Communications office has a test station equipped with a screen reader that is available for departments to test accessibility. For questions about web accessibility, please contact Marketing and Communications at
cmshelp@ou.edu
.
Accessibility and Disability Resource Center
The
Accessibility and Disability Resource Center
, unless otherwise provided, is the central point-of-contact to receive all requests for reasonable accommodation and to receive all documentation required to determine disability status under law. This center will then make are commendation on accommodation to the appropriate administrative unit. Reasonable accommodation with respect to employment matters should be coordinated with the Office of Human Resources. Reasonable accommodation with respect to academic matters, including but not limited to faculty employment, should be coordinated with the Office of the Provost while all other issues of reasonable accommodation should be coordinated with the Office of the Vice President for Administrative Affairs. For questions, please contact the Disability Resource Center at
adrc@ou.edu
, (405) 325-3852 (Voice).
Compliance
Individuals who have complaints alleging discrimination based upon a disability may file them with the
Equal Opportunity Office
in accordance with prevailing University discrimination grievance procedures.
Questions or Concerns
To report accessibility issues on ou.edu, please contact
adrc@ou.edu
.
Marcomm Web Team
Whitehand Hall
339 W. Boyd Street
Suite 319
Norman, OK 73069
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 11/8/2024 by
Marcomm Web Team
:
cmshelp@ou.edu