Skip Navigation
OU Student Combines Passion for Dance with Marketing Ambitions
NEWS
Houston native Avery Bennett, now a resident of Bentonville, Arkansas, graduates with honors from the University of Oklahoma this month. Image by Aaron Lindley.
OU Student Combines Passion for Dance with Marketing Ambitions
By
Lorene Roberson
lar@ou.edu
Date
Dec. 10, 2024
NORMAN, OKLA.
– When Avery Bennett imagined her college years, she dreamed of a place where she could grow both academically and artistically. She would find that balance at the University of Oklahoma, excelling in business and dance. This December, she graduates from OU with a 4.0 GPA, earning a Bachelor of Business Administration in marketing and a Bachelor of Fine Arts in dance.
“I always knew I wanted to pursue a dance degree,” Bennett said. “But I also wanted a traditional college experience, which was impossible in conservatory-style programs. OU’s exceptional dance program and the ability to double major made OU the perfect choice for me.”
Bennett’s journey began at Houston’s Kinder High School for the Performing and Visual Arts, the same school attended by global superstar Beyoncé. The school ignited her passion for dance and creativity, which later grew into a passion for marketing. Initially considering psychology as her second major, Bennett found her calling in marketing, a field that allowed her to grow.
“Marketing has become a newer passion for me,” Bennett said. “Like dance, it lets my creativity shine. My internship experiences have only solidified my love for marketing and social media.”
As a marketing and social media intern at Mary Kay Inc., Bennett took on challenges beyond her comfort zone, including managing TikTok strategies and developing digital campaigns.
Dance, however, remains at the core of Bennett’s identity. “Dance has taught me discipline, time management and independence,” she said. “These qualities have been crucial in balancing the demands of two rigorous degrees and a packed schedule of rehearsals and classes.”
During her time at OU, Bennett rehearsed 15-25 hours weekly during performance seasons, while juggling 18-22 credit hours per semester. Her dedication extended beyond academics, as she managed social media for the
OU School of Dance
Instagram account and participated in the JCPenney Leadership Program, which provided networking and international business insights through trips to Costa Rica and Panama.
“My experiences at OU have prepared me to merge my love for the arts with the world of business,” she said. “I am excited to explore opportunities in social media and marketing in any capacity, but one day, I would love to work in fashion, beauty or with a professional dance company.”
Bennett acknowledges those who have inspired her, including OU Associate Professor Modern Dance Roxanne Lyst in the
Weitzenhoffer Family College of Fine Arts
and Breea Clark, J.D., director of the JCPenney Leadership Program in the
Michael F. Price College of Business
. Both women exemplify strong leadership, ambition and authenticity, she says.
For future students considering their own paths, Bennett advises: “You don’t have to choose between passion and practicality. Find a way to integrate the two. And remember, if you love what you do, the hard work will come naturally.”
About the University of Oklahoma
Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university located in Norman, Oklahoma. As the state’s flagship university, OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. For more information about the university, visit
www.ou.edu
.
Recent News
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 20, 2024
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
Read more
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
James George, M.D., and Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
Read more
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
More OU News
OU News
339 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73069
marcomm@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/12/2024 by
OU News
:
cmshelp@ou.edu