Skip Navigation
OU Vice President, Professor Named Among Top Women Leaders of Oklahoma
NEWS
June Abbas, Ph.D. (left) and Belinda Higgs Hyppolite, Ed.D. (right). Image by Ame Aziere.
OU Vice President, Professor Named Among Top Women Leaders of Oklahoma
By
Jacob Guthrie
ounews@ou.edu
Date
Dec. 11, 2024
NORMAN, OKLA. –
Belinda Higgs Hyppolite, Ed.D., vice president of the Division of Access and Opportunity and associate provost at the University of Oklahoma, and June Abbas, Ph.D., director of the School of Library and Information Studies in the Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences, are among the top women leaders of Oklahoma, according to
Women We Admire
.
The outlet released its list of The Top 50 Women Leaders of Oklahoma for 2024, recognizing inspiring Oklahomans for outstanding leadership in their respective fields. Awardees included leaders in business, higher education, health care and more.
“We are immensely proud to see Drs. Hyppolite and Abbas receive this outstanding recognition,” said OU President Joseph Harroz Jr. “Their dedication and contributions to the University of Oklahoma have had a profound impact, and this honor is a testament to their exceptional leadership and commitment to excellence. We thank Dr. Hyypolite and Dr. Abbas for their continued efforts in shaping a brighter future for our university and community.”
Belinda Higgs Hyppolite
Hyppolite has 28 years of experience in higher education, serving in various leadership roles at multiple higher education institutions. Since joining OU in 2020, she has worked to improve access and opportunity for the OU community. In her current role as Vice President of the Division of Access and Opportunity, Hyppolite supports the university’s Accessibility and Disability Resource Center, Testing Center, TRIO Center and Military and Veteran Student Success Center.
“I am truly honored to be recognized alongside so many inspiring women leaders in Oklahoma,” Hyppolite said. “This acknowledgment reflects the outstanding support and collaboration I’ve experienced throughout my career and would not be possible without the incredible teams and mentors who have been part of my journey.”
Before her time at OU, Hyppolite served as assistant vice president for student development and enrollment services at the University of Central Florida. Throughout her career, she has supported and advocated for many student populations, including low-income, first-generation, veterans, multicultural, fraternity and sorority students.
Hyppolite completed her undergraduate work at Southwest Missouri State University and earned her master’s in counseling education and human resources from Western Illinois University. She earned a doctoral degree in education from Concordia University, specializing in professional leadership, inquiry, and transformation.
June Abbas
As the Edith Kinney Gaylord Presidential Professor and Director of the School of Library and Information Studies in the Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences, Abbas leads nine undergraduate and graduate programs focused on information and data science, library and information studies and museum studies at OU. Abbas also serves as Co-Director for research and strategic initiatives for the university’s Data Scholarship Program, with the goal of growing Oklahoma’s workforce in data science and applied statistics.
“I am greatly honored to be recognized among these amazing women of Oklahoma who continue to contribute their passion and expertise to improving the lives of Oklahomans and the world,” Abbas said. “This wonderful honor would not be possible without the continual support of my family, team at OU, and professional and personal communities to which I serve. I am grateful every day to be in a position where I can inspire our OU community of students, staff, and faculty to aspire high and achieve their dreams and to serve as a mentor to others who might not see the opportunities before them.”
In addition to her roles at OU, Abbas is also the editor-in-chief of the peer-reviewed research journal
Library and Information Science Research
, one of the leading research methods journals in library and information science. In 2016, she received the Kilgour Award from the American Library Association, given to those whose research has had a significant impact on library technology and services. Abbas was also inducted into the inaugural class of the Association for Information Science and Technology Distinguished Members in 2021.
Abbas earned her bachelor’s degree from St. Mary’s College, a master’s in library and information science from Emporia State University and an interdisciplinary doctorate in information science from the University of North Texas.
“I am thrilled to see Dr. Hyppolite and Dr. Abbas honored among Oklahoma’s top women leaders,” said OU Senior Vice President and Provost André-Denis Wright. “Their unwavering commitment to providing opportunities for student success has made a lasting difference and inspires us to strive for even greater impact. We are fortunate to have them championing the power of education for our university community.”
The full list of The Top 50 Women Leaders of Oklahoma for 2024 by
Women We Admire
can be found at
thewomenweadmire.com
.
About the University of Oklahoma
Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university located in Norman, Oklahoma. As the state’s flagship university, OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. For more information about the university, visit
www.ou.edu
.
Recent News
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 20, 2024
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
Read more
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
James George, M.D., and Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
Read more
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
More OU News
OU News
339 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73069
marcomm@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/11/2024 by
OU News
:
cmshelp@ou.edu