Skip Navigation
The University of Oklahoma
THERE’S ONLY
ONE
THE OU IMPACT
DOWNLOAD IMPACT MAP (PDF)
The University of Oklahoma's $2.1 billion enterprise represents one of Oklahoma's greatest assets. Our impact is changing the lives of all Oklahomans, through scholarship, research and more.
30,000+ enrolled students representing 50 states, 76 Oklahoma counties, and 125+ countries
1,400+ research awards totaling $386 million
80% of Oklahoma’s Healthcare professionals are OU graduates
#1 in the Country for Aviation and Atmospheric Science & Meteorology
Download the full Impact Map to learn more about OU's significant contributions statewide (pdf)
.
THERE’S GREATNESS AHEAD OF YOU
There's Only One Oklahoma
For over 131 years, the University of Oklahoma continues to stand apart as a beacon of diverse thinking and unbound exploration. By channeling the strengths of the many, here one is empowered to work in any way, become anything, and arrive anywhere.
Begin your journey with the OU Family today.
APPLY
LEARN MORE
See our beautiful campuses in Norman, Tulsa and Oklahoma City.
VISIT
LEARN MORE
Lead On | The University of Oklahoma's Campaign for the Future
GIVE
LEARN MORE
3 Campuses
31,000+ Students
$416.6M Research Expenditures
170+ Academic
Programs
Learn about OK-1 Cancer Drug
Learn about our Multi-National First-Year Class
Learn about Our Championship Team
-
-
-
Endless Possibilities
When you merge tremendous effort with humility, then infuse that with a healthy dose of resilience, the potential to make an impact is limitless.
NEWS
Campus & Community
McCasland Foundation Gives $10 Million for New OU Residence Halls
December 16, 2024
The University of Oklahoma has received a transformative $10 million gift from the McCasland Foundation to support the construction of two new first-year residence halls on the former Adams Center site. In honor of this gift, the north hall will be named McCasland Hall.
Read more
McCasland Foundation Gives $10 Million for New OU Residence Halls
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
Higher Education Chancellor Presents Plan to Meet Workforce Needs During Tour at OU Health Sciences
Read more
Read article: Higher Education Chancellor Presents Plan to Meet Workforce Needs During Tour at OU Health Sciences
Read article: Higher Education Chancellor Presents Plan to Meet Workforce Needs During Tour at OU Health Sciences
Research
December 12, 2024
OU Faculty Member Co-Leading Innovative National Trial to Advance Lung Cancer Treatment
Read more
Read article: OU Faculty Member Co-Leading Innovative National Trial to Advance Lung Cancer Treatment
Read article: OU Faculty Member Co-Leading Innovative National Trial to Advance Lung Cancer Treatment
READ MORE NEWS
Research
The University of Oklahoma is a comprehensive research university, located on three campuses in Norman, Oklahoma City and Tulsa. OU is designated by the Carnegie Foundation as a Highest Research Activity institution, placing it in the highest tier of comprehensive research universities in the nation.
Read More
125+ Countries Represented
400+ Student Organizations
Campus Life & Community
With over 400 organizations and events to explore, it’s an unrivaled chance to expand your world. At the University of Oklahoma, you have innumerable resources, as well as a shared determination of 30,000 others, to find your calling. Our nationally ranked athletics program, while an anchor of the university, is another outstanding facet of a vibrant campus life.
Read More
OUR CAMPUSES
Woven seamlessly, and proudly, into the essence of Oklahoma, each of our campuses are centers of innovation and educational excellence. And what sustains this level of achievement is grit and dogged determination.
Norman
The University of Oklahoma in Norman is the flagship university and research institution for the state of Oklahoma.
Tulsa
The University of Oklahoma-Tulsa offers a wide range of 30+ undergraduate, Master’s, and Doctorate level degrees.
Health Sciences
The University of Oklahoma’s Health Sciences boasts one of the few comprehensive academic campuses in the nation.
OU Online
OU Online offers high-quality, affordable, professional undergraduate and graduate programs that are committed to maintaining excellence in an online format.
Oklahoma
The Sooner State is elevated by its populous attitude, where opportunity is supported by a nurturing, spirited, and driven community. In the city of Norman, located 30 minutes south of Oklahoma City, our flagship university flourishes. It’s a vibrant, progressive college town, merged with a diverse, business-forward culture.
VISIT NORMAN
EXPLORE OKC
EXPLORE TULSA
FOLLOW US
The University of Oklahoma
660 Parrington Oval,
Norman, OK 73019-0390
(405) 325-0311
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 10/28/2024 by
The University of Oklahoma
:
marcomm@ou.edu