Skip Navigation
Departments & Programs
Departments & Programs
Student Affairs is responsible for the portion of your collegiate experience that occurs outside the classroom. Our departments specialize in the areas of career services, leadership and volunteerism activities, student life activities, student conduct, housing and food, health services, and more. We also provide student affairs services on our Tulsa, Health Sciences Center and Arezzo, Italy campuses. Learn more about each of our departments and the services they offer to OU students.
Advocacy & Education
Career Center
Esports & Co-Curricular Innovation
Fitness + Recreation
Henderson Scholars Program
Housing & Residence Life
Leadership & Volunteerism
New Student Programs
Health Services
Parent & Family Programs
President's Community Scholars
President's Leadership Class
Student Conduct
Student Government Association
Student Legal Services
Student Life
Student Media
Student Organization Services
University Counseling Center
Additional Services
OU Food Pantry
The University of Oklahoma's Food Pantry is a student-run facility that is dedicated to creating a culture of health and wellness within the OU Community.
Visit the OU
Pantry Website
OU Policy Debate Team
The OU Policy Debate Team has a long history of excellence and national recognition. OU competes yearly in cross-examination style policy debate tournaments.
OU Policy
Debate Team
SafeRide
Providing safe and free transportation to OU students within the Norman city limits, every weekend, no questions asked; Thursday, Friday, Saturday 10:00PM - 3:00AM.
Learn More
About SafeRide
OU Student Relief Fund
Providing emergency grant funding, previously known as Sooners Helping Sooners, to current Norman and Tulsa campus students affected by unforeseen financial strain, such as natural disasters, theft of personal property, death in the family, and a variety of other circumstances.
Learn About
OU Student Relief Fund
What To Do
Receive a weekly all-in-one email featuring campus events, engagement opportunities and helpful resources tailored for college students.
Join the What To Do
Email List!
SafeWalk
Housing and Residence Life provides a complimentary service to accompany residential students anywhere on campus (north to south from Boyd St. to Lloyd Noble Center, west to east from Elm Ave. to S. Jenkins Ave.) from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m., Sunday to Thursday.
Learn More
About SafeWalk
Additional Campuses
Arezzo, Italy
Located in the vibrant Tuscan city of Arezzo, OU Arezzo provides the best of both worlds: a home-away-from-home with OU classmates, faculty and staff, and the chance to immerse yourself in a new culture.
Visit the OU in Arezzo
Website
Health Sciences Center
Enriching students’ academic experience by building a diverse and inclusive community; supporting emotional, intellectual and personal growth; facilitating professional development; and providing guidance toward a professional health career.
Visit the HSC
Student Affairs Website
Tulsa
Providing customized services to meet the needs of our OU-Tulsa student population in the areas of career consultation, activities and programming, wellness, and more.
Visit the OU-Tulsa
Student Affairs Website
Student Affairs
Oklahoma Memorial Union
900 Asp Avenue, Suite 265
Norman, Oklahoma 73019
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 9/10/2024 by
Student Affairs
:
studentaffairs@ou.edu