Skip Navigation
Land Acknowledgement Statement
OU Homepage
Search OU
The University of Oklahoma
Skip Side Navigation
Home
Curriculum & Course Info
Identity and Academic Integrity
Undergraduate Program
Graduate Program
Native American Languages
People
News
Events
Resources
Scholarships and Fellowships
Connect
Donate to NAS
Campus Partners
Land Acknowledgement Statement
Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences
/
Native American Studies
/
Land Acknowledgement Statement
Land Acknowledgement Statement
"Long before the University of Oklahoma was established, the land on which the University now resides was the traditional home of the “Hasinais” Caddo Nation and “
Kirikirʔi:s
” Wichita & Affiliated Tribes.
We acknowledge this territory once also served as a hunting ground, trade exchange point, and migration route for the Apache, Comanche, Kiowa and Osage nations.
Today, 39 tribal nations dwell in the state of Oklahoma as a result of settler and colonial policies that were designed to assimilate Native people.
The University of Oklahoma recognizes the historical connection our university has with its Indigenous community. We acknowledge, honor and respect the diverse Indigenous peoples connected to this land. We fully recognize, support and advocate for the sovereign rights of all of Oklahoma’s 39 tribal nations. This acknowledgement is aligned with our university’s core value of creating a diverse and inclusive community. It is an institutional responsibility to recognize and acknowledge the people, culture and history that make up our entire OU Community."
The above land acknowledgement statement was created by the OU Land Acknowledgement Working Group in August of 2020. This statement may be borrowed. For resources on creating your own LAS, see the guide below provided by the Native Governance Center.
Additional Resources:
Native Land Digital
Whose Land
Native Governance Center - A Guide to Indigenous Land Acknowledgement
Indigenous Ally Toolkit
OU Land Acknowledgement Statement
Draft approved by the OU LAS Working Group, August 2020
The Department of Native American Studies
860 Van Vleet Oval
Copeland Hall 235
Norman, OK 73019-3119
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Accreditation
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources & Offices
OU Report It!
NAS Social Media
facebook
instagram
OU Social Media Directory
Updated 12/16/2022 by
The Department of Native American Studies
:
nas@ou.edu