Skip Navigation
Housing and Food
We bring life to the
University community.
No matter where you are in your educational journey, we have just the right living environment to help you succeed.
All incoming first-year students are guaranteed an on-campus housing experience
, and after your first year, there’s no need to leave campus. We have multiple housing options, ranging from suites to apartments, for our upperclass students to choose from.
Don’t forget about adding one of our meal plans to get the most out of your campus experience. With over 20 on-campus restaurants, including
the world’s only all-you-can-eat Chick-fil-A
in Couch Restaurants, you’re never far from your next snack or latte.
Contract Information
laptop
The 2025-2026 first-year housing contract is now open!
It’s almost time for you to complete your OU housing contract to secure your home on campus next fall! The housing contract opens November 15, and you have until May 1 to complete. Students must be admitted to OU before they can complete the housing contract.
Room selection access times will be determined by your enrollment deposit date. To receive a room selection access time, you must pay your enrollment deposit by May 1 and complete your housing contract.
Log in to The Housing Portal
The Spring 2025 housing contract is now open!
It’s time for you to complete your OU housing contract to secure your home on campus this spring! The housing contract is open now. Students must be admitted to OU before they can complete the housing contract.
Log in to The Housing Portal
Learn more about the process
to get a preview of what to expect.
building
The 2025-2026 upperclass housing contracts are now open!
After your first year, there's no need to leave campus! All bills and utilities are included, and rent can be charged directly to the Bursar.
Upperclass housing options are fully furnished, have complimentary Internet and 24-hour maintenance. All properties are within walking and biking distance of campus.
Traditions Square Apartments:
Important:
Room selection access times are based on contract completion date.
If availability allows, current Traditions Square residents will be assigned to their same room, but may change to another available room during room selection if desired.
Traditions Square will have a 10-month contract lasting from August 1 through May 31.
Key Dates:
November 25: Contracts Open at 9 a.m. CST
March 1: Roommate request deadline
March 5 - June 1: Room Selection
Start Your Contract
Learn more about the process
to get a preview of what to expect.
Residence Halls:
Important:
Room selection access times are based on contract completion date.
Upperclass housing is limited and space is not guaranteed.
Key Dates:
November 25: Contracts Open at 9 a.m. CST
March 1: Roommate request deadline
March 5 - June 15: Room Selection
Start Your Contract
Learn more about the process
to get a preview of what to expect.
Commuter meal plan contracts for fall 2024 are now available.
Log in to The Housing Portal
2025-2026 First-Year Housing Contract Process
The 2025-2026 first-year housing contract is now open! If you complete a housing contract and submit an enrollment deposit by May 1, you will be eligible to participate in room selection. The sooner you submit your enrollment deposit, the better, as room selection access times will be determined by your enrollment deposit date.
Learn How to Complete your Contract
The OU First-Year Housing Contract Is Now Open
In order to complete your contract, you must set up your OU account and email if you have not done so already.
Set Up Your OU Account & Email
Spring 2025 Move-In
We are excited to welcome students to their University home!
View details about Move-In
Come Work with Food Services!
Apply now! Begin work by September 13, 2024, and become eligible for early enrollment in spring 2025.
Starting pay at $11/hr. • Flexible schedule & hours
Free meal for each shift worked
Stay on campus • Work with great people
Apply now
Campus Dining
OU Campus Dining continuously strives to offer students and guests the highest level of service, quality and variety of options. As we welcome students, faculty and staff to campus for fall 2023, we want to clearly communicate the dining options that are open.
Dining Options for spring 2024
Tour Your Future Home
Take a virtual tour with our tour guides and see how housing and food works at OU!
View the Virtual Tour
Upperclass Housing
After your first year, there's no need to leave campus! We have multiple housing options for our upperclass students to choose from.
Learn more about the process
Residence Halls & Apartments
Explore Living Options
Feed Your Appetite
Explore Dining Options
Maintenance Request
Submit a Maintenance Request
Forms and Policies
Find Forms and Policies
Sooner Card
More about Sooner Card
OU Passport
Passport Information
OU Housing and Residence Life Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
OU Campus Dining Life Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
Housing and Food Services
1406 Asp Ave, Room 126
Norman, OK 73019-2150
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 11/25/2024 by
Housing and Food Services
:
housinginfo@ou.edu