Skip Navigation
New Drug Dramatically Improves Survival for Children with Common Type of Leukemia
NEWS
Bentley McMinn, who was diagnosed with leukemia in 2019, was successfully treated on a clinical trial that studied the effectiveness of a drug-chemotherapy treatment combination. Photo provided.
New Drug Dramatically Improves Survival for Children with Common Type of Leukemia
Leukemia drug’s superior performance led to rapid testing in standard-risk clinical trials
By
April Wilkerson
april-j-wilkerson@ouhsc.edu
Date
Dec. 9, 2024
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLA.
– Six-year-old Bentley’s diagnosis of precursor B cell acute lymphocytic leukemia (B-ALL) in 2019 sent his family into a tailspin of worry about what the future would hold for the sweet boy who loved to make everyone laugh.
It didn’t take long for the family’s anxiety to turn cautiously toward hope. Bentley was enrolled in a University of Oklahoma Health Sciences clinical trial studying whether a drug called blinatumomab, when given in conjunction with chemotherapy, would improve patients’ survival without the cancer returning. Within a month, Bentley’s leukemia was in remission, and he remains disease-free today.
“It was so scary when we received the diagnosis; I remember it like it was yesterday,” said Bentley’s mother, Jamie Wilson, who lives in Duncan with her three other children. “After learning about the clinical trial, we decided it was what we wanted to do. Bentley did really well from the start, and today, he is back to a normal 11-year-old’s life. The whole experience took a toll on us, but it also made our family stronger and more tight-knit. We’ve learned to love a little bit harder.”
The trial performed similarly well in other children at the 228 clinical trial sites around the world, so much so that the trial was halted before its completion date because of the drug’s clear benefit. Now, it will be standard practice to give blinatumomab in combination with chemotherapy to children with standard-risk B-ALL, the most common childhood cancer.
“We didn’t expect to see results like this: 96% of participants with standard-risk B-ALL who received blinatumomab and chemotherapy had not experienced a relapse of their cancer at the three-year point, compared to 87.9% of participants who only received chemotherapy. This is why research is so important – so we can continue to make these jumps forward in the quality of care. This drug is a game-changer,” said OU Health pediatric hematologist-oncologist and trial leader Rene McNall, M.D., a professor of pediatrics in the OU College of Medicine.
The trial was sponsored by Children’s Oncology Group, a National Cancer Institute-funded cooperative group. Clinical trials may be halted early when a treatment is found to be superior so that all qualifying trial participants can receive the more beneficial drug.
B-ALL occurs when immature B cells, a type of white blood cell that helps the body fight off infections, grow out of control and replace the bone marrow with multiple copies of themselves. Most children with B-ALL experience symptoms such as fever, bone pain, bruising, nosebleeds or infections as their normal blood cells are replaced by these abnormal cells. The cancer is most often diagnosed in toddlers but can be seen in all age groups, including adults.
Blinatumomab was previously studied in a clinical trial for patients whose leukemia had relapsed, which is the typical path for clinical research – first testing a drug in patients who do not have a known cure. The drug had such good results that researchers decided to create a trial for standard-risk patients.
B-ALL already had a high survival rate of about 85% for all patients diagnosed with the disease, but seeing an improvement of 10% is significant, McNall said.
“Even when we were curing 85% of kids with leukemia, we were still losing one in eight,” she said. “Now we are losing only two or three out of 100 patients. That is a huge change.”
Blinatumomab is an antibody drug with two “arms” – one arm recognizes leukemia cells, and the other recognizes T cells, which are immune cells that protect the body from disease. The drug essentially pulls both arms together so the T cells can recognize and start killing the cancer cells. As a targeted therapy that doesn’t harm healthy cells, blinatumomab comes with fewer side effects than chemotherapy.
Because the drug is given in two one-month cycles interspersed with chemotherapy, patients are connected to a continuous IV infusion and sent home with a backpack of the drug that slowly drips into a port. The arrangement involves diligence on the part of families but eliminates a lengthy hospitalization.
“This trial represents why I work in academic medicine – we want to treat our patients today, but also to conduct research for the kids who are coming next,” McNall said.
About the University of Oklahoma
Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university with campuses in Norman, Oklahoma City and Tulsa. As the state’s flagship university, OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. In Oklahoma City, OU Health Sciences is one of the nation’s few academic health centers with seven health profession colleges located on the same campus. OU Health Sciences serves approximately 4,000 students in more than 70 undergraduate and graduate degree programs spanning Oklahoma City and Tulsa and is the leading research institution in Oklahoma. For more information about OU Health Sciences, visit
www.ouhsc.edu
.
About The Children’s Oncology Group (COG)
COG (childrensoncologygroup.org), a member of the NCI National Clinical Trials Network (NCTN), is the world’s largest organization devoted exclusively to childhood and adolescent cancer research. COG unites over 10,000 experts in childhood cancer at more than 200 leading children’s hospitals, universities, and cancer centers across North America, Australia, New Zealand, and Saudi Arabia in the fight against childhood cancer. Today, more than 80% of the 15,000 children and adolescents diagnosed with cancer each year in the United States are cared for at COG member institutions. Research performed by COG institutions over the past 50 years has transformed childhood cancer from a virtually incurable disease to one with a combined 5-year survival rate of 86%. COG’s mission is to improve the cure rate and outcomes for all children with cancer.
Recent News
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 20, 2024
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
Read more
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
James George, M.D., and Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
Read more
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
More OU News
OU News
339 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73069
marcomm@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/9/2024 by
OU News
:
cmshelp@ou.edu