Skip Navigation
OU Launches State-of-the-Art Bioprocessing Engineering Focus
NEWS
A student at work in the Bioprocessing Core Facility.
OU Launches State-of-the-Art Bioprocessing Engineering Focus
By
Kat Gebauer
kathryngebauer@ou.edu
Date
Dec. 11, 2024
NORMAN, OKLA. –
A new certificate program offered by the University of Oklahoma Gallogly College of Engineering is equipping students with advanced, hands-on bioprocessing laboratory experience. The certificate is designed to train students in biomanufacturing workflows and prepare them for future careers in the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industries.
The program is open to undergraduate and graduate students enrolled at the university. Undergraduate students complete 15 hours of coursework, and graduate students complete 12 hours.
The curriculum includes courses such as Biotechnology, Biochemical Engineering and Advanced Techniques in Biomanufacturing that lay the groundwork for the workflows required for Oklahoma’s growing biomedical and biotechnology industry. To further enhance their expertise, students enroll in elective courses like Intelligent Data Analytics to specialize their knowledge. They then apply this knowledge to the capstone course, where they conduct an experimental production run.
The
Bioprocessing Core Facility
is the cornerstone of the program, providing students with access to state-of-the-art biomanufacturing technology. Recently opened, the facility is designed to replicate the conditions found in industry settings, providing students with an authentic learning environment while giving them the tools they need to graduate with hands-on experience in biomanufacturing. This preparation equips students to meet the demands of the biomanufacturing and pharmaceutical fields upon entering the workforce.
“They learn how to work with this equipment, they develop the necessary skills and they gain an understanding of what is happening in an industrial setup. This makes them job-ready,” said Farid Talebnia Rowshan, facility director.
This semester, the program opened its very first training course with a limited number of students. The program is open for students to enroll for the spring 2025 semester. Learn more about the program at
ou.edu/coe/scbme/academics/bioprocessing-certificate-program
.
About the University of Oklahoma
Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university located in Norman, Oklahoma. As the state’s flagship university, OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. For more information about the university, visit
www.ou.edu
.
Recent News
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 20, 2024
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
Read more
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
James George, M.D., and Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
Read more
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
More OU News
OU News
339 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73069
marcomm@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/11/2024 by
OU News
:
cmshelp@ou.edu