Skip Navigation
Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences
OU's First and Largest College
The Cornerstone of the University
The Dodge Student Success and Advising Center
The Student Success and Advising Center is dedicated to nurturing the academic, professional, and personal growth of undergraduate students in the Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences. The SSAC can assist students with the following: general questions, academic advising, academic success strategies, finding campus involvement opportunities, career exploration, navigating campus resources, student advocacy, etc.
Learn More About The Dodge
Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences Dean Announcement
David Wrobel, Dean of the Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences, has accepted a role at Stony Brook University as its new Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences.
OU Graduate College Dean Randall Hewes will step in as Interim Dean, pending final Regents’ approval.
Read the CAS Dean Announcement (pdf)
OU Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences Honors Impact Awards Recipients
The OU Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Oklahoma held its annual Awards Lunch on Thursday, April 25th, at the Noun Hotel. The event, now named the Impact Awards Luncheon (formerly Kaleidoscope), celebrates the significant contributions of outstanding students, faculty, staff, and alumni to the university community.
Read More About the 2024 Impact Awards
4
College Areas:
Humanities, Natural Sciences,
Social Sciences, Professional Programs
48%
of OU full-time
instructional faculty
are in the
Dodge Family College
10,000
More than 10,000 students
are in the college:
8,000 Undergraduates
2,000 Graduate Students
100,000
More than
100,000
graduates,
all-time
When I came to a conference at OU, I was shown the promise of not just a family, but a home here in Norman. Coming from a place where my parents have a total of 13 siblings, I know what it means to come from a big family, and that is exactly what this college is. I know that when I reflect on my OU experience years from now, I will always have immense gratitude for the privilege of having such impactful opportunities these last four years.
– Devin Brown, Senior, Planned Programs
Facebook
Skip Facebook Widget
Upcoming Events
Instagram @ouartssciences
Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences
Ellison Hall
633 Elm Avenue
Norman, OK 73019-3118
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/18/2024 by
Dodge Family College of Arts and Sciences
:
cas@ou.edu