Skip Navigation
Marketing and Communications
University Marketing and Communications
Shared Vision
The University of Oklahoma’s Division of Marketing and Communications is a dynamic and visionary collective committed to advancing OU’s mission and the university’s Strategic Plan. Our collaborative team of storytellers, experience makers, and marketing professionals strategically elevates the OU brand by creating authentic, compelling content that showcases our excellence and global impact.
Guiding Principles
Connect
Operate as a cohesive and collaborative team with our partners across the university to offer best-in class support and expertise to foster strong relationships with target audiences.
Create
Produce authentic, high-quality content that tells the impactful and evolving story of the University of Oklahoma.
Elevate
Advance the university’s strategic objectives by engaging our audiences to elevate and protect OU’s brand and reputation. Develop thought leaders who raise stories, issues, and voices through storytelling, research, and partnerships to share the university’s contributions to society.
Engage
Foster meaningful connections with our audiences to enhance the university experience, build brand affinity, and encourage further support.
Inspire
Instill pride in our university by showcasing OU’s global influence.
Recent News
Campus & Community
McCasland Foundation Gives $10 Million for New OU Residence Halls
December 16, 2024
The University of Oklahoma has received a transformative $10 million gift from the McCasland Foundation to support the construction of two new first-year residence halls on the former Adams Center site. In honor of this gift, the north hall will be named McCasland Hall.
Read more
McCasland Foundation Gives $10 Million for New OU Residence Halls
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
Higher Education Chancellor Presents Plan to Meet Workforce Needs During Tour at OU Health Sciences
Read more
Read article: Higher Education Chancellor Presents Plan to Meet Workforce Needs During Tour at OU Health Sciences
Read article: Higher Education Chancellor Presents Plan to Meet Workforce Needs During Tour at OU Health Sciences
Research
December 12, 2024
OU Faculty Member Co-Leading Innovative National Trial to Advance Lung Cancer Treatment
Read more
Read article: OU Faculty Member Co-Leading Innovative National Trial to Advance Lung Cancer Treatment
Read article: OU Faculty Member Co-Leading Innovative National Trial to Advance Lung Cancer Treatment
More News >
Social Media
Marcomm Web Team
Whitehand Hall
339 W. Boyd Street
Suite 319
Norman, OK 73069
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/3/2024 by
Marcomm Web Team
:
cmshelp@ou.edu