Skip Navigation
Internal Audit
OU Homepage
Search OU
The University of Oklahoma
Internal Audit
OU Norman
OU Health Sciences Center
OU Tulsa
Rogers State University
Cameron University
This website is designed to inform you about our purpose, scope of authority, and the professional services we provide that add value to the University. You will also find general audit resources about internal controls for a variety of business processes.
Find audit staff directory, helpful links and other specific internal audit information for the OU Norman campus.
OU Norman Audit Info
Find audit staff directory, helpful links and other specific internal audit information for the OU HSC campus.
OU HSC Audit Info
Find audit staff directory, helpful links and other specific internal audit information for the OU Tulsa campus.
OU Tulsa Audit Info
Find audit staff directory, helpful links and other specific internal audit information for the Rogers State University campus.
Rogers State University Audit Info
Find audit staff directory, helpful links and other specific internal audit information for the Cameron University campus.
Cameron University Audit Info
Skip Side Navigation
Home
About Us
Audit Charter
Audit Process
Audit Resources
Report Fraud
Contact Us
Quicklinks
OU Norman
OU Health Sciences Center
OU Tulsa
Rogers State University
Cameron University
The University of Oklahoma Internal Audit
The mission of The University of Oklahoma Internal Audit is to assist members of the organization in the effective discharge of their responsibilities by providing them with independent and objective analysis, appraisals, recommendations, and pertinent comments with reference to:
the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control structure,
the safeguarding of assets,
compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and
the achievement of management’s objectives.
If you have any suggestions, concerns, or questions about our department, the services we provide, or need help in finding some specific information on our website, please feel free to call us at (405) 325-3412. We are here to help and we value your feedback.
Charles Wright, CPA
Chief Audit Executive
How to Report Fraud
OU Report It! Hotline
The Internal Audit Department performs audit work in accordance with the Institute of Internal Auditors International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.
Internal Audit
300 Kellogg Drive, Room 130
Norman, Oklahoma 73072
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Accreditation
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources & Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 1/25/2024 by
Internal Audit
:
internalaudit@ou.edu