Skip Navigation
College of International Studies
Welcome to the OU College of International Studies
Bringing the world to the heartland and University of Oklahoma students to the world.
The David L. Boren College of International Studies at the University of Oklahoma offers a unique small-college experience within a flagship research University. Behind the doors of beautiful Farzaneh Hall, you will find an intellectually curious, diverse community of students, professors and staff who care — not only about the issues facing our world, but about each other. Here you will find small classes, impromptu post-class discussions, prominent and influential guest speakers, unique international events and programming, and above all, opportunity. Do you want to pursue an internship in Washington, D.C.? An undergraduate research project that will take you to your first academic conference? A study abroad program in a country far from home? At CIS, it’s possible. And our faculty and staff will support you all the way.
With a multi-disciplinary curriculum offering 9 majors, 11 minors, 2 graduate programs, and an accelerated BA/MA degree, the College of International Studies offers a strong foundation of knowledge across multiple international fields of study with the flexibility to accommodate diverse interests and career goals. We provide a range of scholarships specifically for our majors, and we strongly support participation in study abroad and away programs. A degree in International & Area Studies from OU not only opens the door to a global career, but fosters an international perspective and growth mindset that distinguishes our alumni on the job market.
Why Choose a Major or Minor in CIS?
Supportive, small liberal arts atmosphere with an emphasis on small classes and hands-on learning.
A welcoming community that allows you to connect with your professors and classmates and participate in fun activities and meaningful events
A record of success connecting undergraduate students with research, internship and international opportunities
A world-class faculty who are experts in a wide range of regions and specialties
An exceptionally international college where students and faculty of different backgrounds, nationalities, experiences and perspectives come together in the pursuit of knowledge and understanding and dedicated to preparing students for careers with purpose
Regular events and speakers hosted by our nine international research centers, as well as a close relationship with international student programs, provide many extracurricular ways to meet friends, learn and share ideas
Alumni go on to successful careers in diplomacy, government and intelligence agencies, think tanks, Humanitarian and Development nonprofits and NGOs, politics, international journalism, business, security, academia and more
Meet Our Faculty
Learn more about some of our CIS faculty, the journeys that led them to international studies, and what to expect from their classes!
Hannah Chapman
Theodore Romanoff Assistant Professor of Russian Studies
Assistant Professor, International & Area Studies
Currently teaching:
IAS 3003 How to Be a Dictator
IAS 5723 Global Policy Workshop
Fall 2024 courses:
IAS 5940 Russian Foreign Policy
Fabio de Sa e Silva
Associate Professor of International Studies
Wick Cary Professor of Brazilian Studies
Currently teaching:
IAS 2003 Understanding the Global Community
IAS 3353 Modern Brazil
John Emery
Assistant Professor of International Security
Currently teaching:
IAS 3003 National Security Policy
IAS 5003 U.S. Foreign Relations
Fall 2024 courses:
IAS 3303 National Security Policy
IAS 3823 Technology & War
Manata Hashemi
Farzaneh Family Associate Professor of Iranian Studies
Currently teaching:
IAS 3393 Iranian Society Through Cinema
IAS 3763 Women and Gender in the Middle East
Fall 2024 courses:
IAS 3983 Anti-Muslim Racism
Natalie Letsa
Wick Cary Assistant Professor of Political Economy
Currently teaching:
IAS 5583 African Politics and Society
Fall 2024 courses:
IAS 3323 Political Economy of Development
IAS 3792 African Politics and Society
Rachel Schwartz
Assistant Professor of International & Area Studies
Currently teaching:
IAS 3543 International Peacebuilding
IAS 5902 Global Political Turbulence
Fall 2024 courses:
IAS 2133 International Sports
IAS 3313 Latin American International Relations
News
Campus & Community
October 14, 2024
Former US Ambassador to Russia Discusses New Book, Diplomatic Experiences
John J. Sullivan, former U.S. Ambassador to Russia, recently visited the University of Oklahoma to discuss his newly published book, Midnight in Moscow, a Memoir from the Front Lines of Russia’s War Against the West.
Read more
Read article: Former US Ambassador to Russia Discusses New Book, Diplomatic Experiences
Read article: Former US Ambassador to Russia Discusses New Book, Diplomatic Experiences
More News Stories
Events
Our Programs
Undergraduate
Graduate
Study Abroad and Away
Research and Academic Events
Research Centers
International Theory Journal
News and Events
Student Resources
Scholarships
Internships and Careers
Student
Stories
David L. Boren College of International Studies
Farzaneh Hall, Room 118
729 Elm Ave.
Norman, OK 73019
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/17/2024 by
David L. Boren College of International Studies
:
cis@ou.edu