Skip Navigation
Admissions & Recruitment
search
There’s Only
One
At the University of Oklahoma, we put our pride to work.
We strive for excellence beyond the classroom, beyond the lab, and beyond the playing field. We transcend borders and create a place of belonging for all. There's Only One Oklahoma.
Join the
OU Family
At the University of Oklahoma, we seek smart, motivated, and service-orientated students who will enhance our academic community.
Apply
Visit
Campus
The best way to experience the OU Family and to learn about all that we have to offer is to visit our beautiful campus in Norman, Oklahoma.
Visit
Request Information
Sign up for our mailing list to connect with academic, scholarship, admission, and student life information and opportunities.
Sign Up
170+
Academic Programs
500+
Student Organizations
200
Study Abroad Cities
135+
Countries Represented
Oklahoma
at Your
Fingertips
Connect with the University of Oklahoma
virtually through one-on-one appointments with current OU students, meeting your admissions counselor, registering for weekly webinars, and more.
Virtual Resources
Find Your Counselor
A Wide Horizon Awaits
Undergraduate Admissions
Apply to OU as a freshman, transfer, or international student. As an OU student, you can choose from more than 170 academic programs and earn your bachelor’s degree. You can also get involved on campus with more than 500 student organizations.
APPLY
Graduate
Programs
Further your education with a graduate degree from OU. Explore OU's graduate programs, including more than 260 master’s and doctoral-level majors. Build your reputation and expand your boundaries at a university focused on holistic education.
Graduate College
OU
Online
Elevate your career or venture into a new one with a degree from OU Online. Our undergraduate degree completion and graduate programs are carefully selected to meet workforce needs and allow you to learn on your own schedule.
OU Online
Professional & Continuing Studies
The College of Professional and Continuing Studies provides undergraduate, certificate, and non-credit professional development programs. Explore how these programs can help you reach your goals.
PACS
Your Endless
possibilities
With OU
See yourself at OU
. Access your personalized You at OU portal to learn more about academic colleges of interest, admissions deadlines, student life, and more!
You at OU
Discover the Opportunities
Discover the endless opportunities waiting at the University of Oklahoma by diving into Sooner Stories, a blog dedicated to highlighting our student body's latest achievements, or by requesting more information about OU!
Sooner Stories
Request Information
Experience
the greatness
See what life is like in the OU Family by following
@go2ou
.
ANNUAL SECURITY AND FIRE SAFETY REPORT (PDF)
Admissions & Recruitment
550 Parrington Oval
Norman, OK 73019
(405) 325-2151
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 11/4/2024 by
Admissions & Recruitment
:
admissions@ou.edu