Skip Navigation
Anindya Maiti
Anindya Maiti
Assistant Professor
Email:
am@ou.edu
Phone:
(405) 325-4951
Office:
Devon Energy Hall Room 210-G
Website:
maiti.info/anindya
Education
Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Wichita State University
M.S., Electrical Engineering
Wichita State University
B.Tech., Computer Science
Vellore Institute of Technology
Research Focus
Privacy and security, micromobility and urban planning, cyber-physical systems, information assurance and network security, applied machine learning and artificial intelligence.
Experience and Awards
Assistant Professor, University of Oklahoma
Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas at San Antonio
Member of IEEE and ACM
Fellow of the Eta Kappa Nu
Best Paper Award, IEEE WristSense 2018
Outstanding Master's Thesis Award, Wichita State University, 2015
Biography
Dr. Anindya Maiti is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the University of Oklahoma (OU), where he directs the SecretLab. SecretLab’s research focus primarily lies in the areas of privacy and security in cyber-physical systems, information assurance and network security, and applied machine learning and artificial intelligence. He is also currently working on the development of an NSF-funded micromobility testbed designed to help improve pedestrian safety and make data-driven urban planning.
Selected Projects
NSF CCRI: Planning: ScooterLab: Development of a Programmable and Participatory e-Scooter Testbed to Enable CISE-focused Micromobility. $100,000. October 1, 2020 - March 31, 2022.
Selected Publications
Mohd Sabra, Anindya Maiti, and Murtuza Jadliwala. "Background Buster: Peeking through Virtual Backgrounds in Online Video Calls." IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN), June 2022.
Nisha Vinayaga-Sureshkanth, Raveen Wijewickrama, Anindya Maiti, and Murtuza Jadliwala. "An Investigative Study on the Privacy Implications of Mobile E-scooter Rental Apps." ACM Conference on Security and Privacy in Wireless and Mobile Networks (WiSec), May 2022.
Soundarya Ramesh, Xiao Rui, Anindya Maiti, Jong Taek Lee, Harini Ramprasad, Ananda Kumar, Murtuza Jadliwala, and Jun Han, "Acoustics to the Rescue: Physical Key Inference Attack Revisited", USENIX Security Symposium (SECURITY), August 2021.
Raveen Wijewickrama, Anindya Maiti, and Murtuza Jadliwala, "Write to Know: On the Feasibility of Wrist Motion based User-Authentication from Handwriting", ACM Conference on Security and Privacy in Wireless and Mobile Networks (WiSec), June 2021.
Mohd Sabra, Anindya Maiti, and Murtuza Jadliwala, "Zoom on the Keystrokes: Exploiting Video Calls for Keystroke Inference Attacks", Network & Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS), February 2021.
Anindya Maiti, and Murtuza Jadliwala, "Smart Light-Based Information Leakage Attacks", ACM GetMobile: Mobile Computing and Communications, Volume 24, Number 1, 2020.
Anindya Maiti, and Murtuza Jadliwala, "Light Ears: Information Leakage via Smart Lights", Proceedings of the ACM on Interactive, Mobile, Wearable and Ubiquitous Technologies, Volume 3, Number 3, Article 98, 2019.
Kavita Kumari, Murtuza Jadliwala, Anindya Maiti, and Mohammad Hossein Manshaei, "Analyzing Defense Strategies Against Mobile Information Leakages: A Game-Theoretic Approach", Conference on Decision and Game Theory for Security (GameSec), October 2019.
Anindya Maiti, Murtuza Jadliwala, Jibo He, and Igor Bilogrevic, "Side-Channel Inference Attacks on Mobile Keypads using Smartwatches", IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, Volume 17, Issue 9, 2018.
School of Computer Science
Devon Energy Hall
110 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73019
Phone: (405) 325-4042
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/19/2024 by
School of Computer Science
:
cs@ou.edu