Skip Navigation
Legal Notices
Legal Notices
Copyright The Board of Regents of the University of Oklahoma, All Rights Reserved
Logos, Brand Guide & Licensed University Marks
Terms of Use
Sexual Misconduct, Discrimination and Harassment Policy
Campus Policies & Procedures
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY POLICY
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY POLICY
The University of Oklahoma, in compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations, does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, genetic information, gender identity, gender expression, age, religion, disability, political beliefs, or status as a veteran in any of its policies, practices, or procedures. This includes, but is not limited to: admissions, employment, financial aid, housing, services in educational programs or activities, or health care services that the University operates or provides.
Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to:
Marci Gracey
Institutional Equity Officer and Title IX Coordinator
Phone: (405) 325-3546
Email:
mgracey@ou.edu
Website:
ou.edu/eoo.html
UNIVERSITY'S STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT TO AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
The University of Oklahoma, recognizing its obligation to guarantee equal opportunity to all persons in all segments of University life, reaffirms its commitment to the continuation and expansion of positive programs which reinforce and strengthen its affirmative action policies. This commitment stems not only from compliance with federal and state equal opportunity laws but from a desire to ensure social justice and promote campus diversity. The University will continue its policy of fair and equal employment practices for all employees and job applicants without insidious discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, genetic information, age, religion, political beliefs, disability or status as a veteran. The University will maintain a critical and continuing evaluation of its employment policies, programs and practices. Each budget unit bears a responsibility for constructive implementation of this Plan, and whenever possible, to the overall progress toward employment opportunity and participation in all University programs and activities. Our commitment to the concept of affirmative action requires sincere and cooperative efforts throughout all levels of our employment structure. We will continue to strive to reach the goals of fair and equal employment opportunities for all.
The University of Oklahoma
660 Parrington Oval,
Norman, OK 73019-0390
(405) 325-0311
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 5/1/2024 by
The University of Oklahoma
:
marcomm@ou.edu