OU-NORMAN CAMPUS:  TORNADO REFUGE PROTOCOL  
  
OU Norman Campus Students, Staff, and Faculty:  
 
Research strongly indicates that the safest place of refuge when tornadoes threaten is in an interior room at home. 
However, given the large number of student s living on campus, t he University of Oklahoma will take as many 
precautions as possible to provide severe weather refuge areas  for on-campus students  in classes and residence 
halls, as well as for staff  and faculty at work  when tornadoes threaten. Those working, taking classes, and living on 
campus should familiarize themselves with the location of each building’s severe weather refuge areas  in advan ce of 
a severe weather threat.  
 
Important Tornado Terminology:  Watch vs. Warning  
 
• Tornado Watch = Be Prepared.  A Tornado Watch is used to notify you to pay attention to the possibility of 
tornadoes during the next several hours.  
o When a Tornado Watch is issued by the NOAA Storm Prediction Center, on-campus residence hall 
refuge areas at Couch, Walker, Kraettli , Cross Village, Traditions East and Traditions West will be 
activated for access using a valid OU student ID.  
o If a watch is issued, stay  up-to -date with the weather situation in your area. Weather information for 
the OU  Norman Campus is available from the OU Department of Campus Safety  as well as the OU 
Campus Safety Twitter feed @OUEmergencyPrep .  
o In addition, make sure that your mobile contact phone number at  ecs.ou.edu is accurate to receive 
important OU  RAVE Alerts. 
 
• Tornado Warning = Take Action.  A Tornado Warning means that a tornado is imminent and quick action is 
necessary.  
o An OU RAVE Tornado Alert text message will be sent if a tornado is expected to threaten the 
Norman campus.  
o Do not leave the building you are in. Proceed immediately to the appropriate severe weather refuge 
area inside the building  you are in. The most dangerous location when a tornado threatens is 
outside. Stay indoors!   
o Note: There may be occasions in which the City of Norman activates its outdoor warning sirens but 
an OU RAVE text message is not sent, as the city’s outdoor warning sirens cover a large 
geographic area that stretches miles away from campus. In these instan ces, make sure you are 
closely monitoring local weather reports.  
 
If You Do Not Live O n Campus, Prepare to Seek Refuge at Home.  
 
If you do not live on campus, seek refuge at home unless you are already on campus when the warning is 
issued. OU Norman Campus buildings are not public storm shelters, as room is only available for on -campus 
students, staff, and faculty.  Do not leave your home to respond to campus . 
 
Before Severe Weather Hits, Make a Plan:  Tornadoe s in Oklahoma can occur during any time of year. C reate a 
plan and prepare your home environment for a tornado threat.  
• Identify safe refuge-in -home options utilizing the “get in - get down - cover up” strategy. Specifically, select 
an interior room  away from doors and windows on the lowest level of your residence and prepare to use a 
bicycle helmet, pillows and blankets to protect yourself from possible debris.  
 
If You Are On Campus During a Tornado Warning:  
 
• Place of Refuge Protocol During the Class/Work Day  
 
o If a Tornado Warning is issued during business hours , all on- campus students, staff, and faculty should take 
refuge in the severe weather refuge areas  of the building you are in. Those working, taking classes, and 
living on campus should familiarize themselves with the location of each building’s severe weather refuge 
areas in advance of a severe weather threat. Maps are available in each building, and the locations are also 
listed  here. 
o Students in on- campus housing when the tornado warning is issued should use their appropriate residence 
hall refuge areas at Couch, Walker, Kraettli , Traditions East, Traditions West, Cross Village, the appropriate 
stairwells at David L. Boren Hall and Headington Hall, and the basements at Headington College and Dunham College. Many of t hese areas are controlled access, meaning that you must swipe your OU 
student ID to enter the place of refuge.  
 
• Place of Refuge Protocol | After Hours  and Weekends  
 
o Students Living in On -Campus Housing  
All residence hall refuge areas will be activated in advance of  a tornado threat ( i.e., when a Tornado Watch 
is issued). When a Tornado Warning is issued, proceed immediately to these refuge areas (Couch, Walker, 
Kraettli , Traditions East, Traditions West, Cross Village, the appropriate stairwells at David L. Boren Hall 
and Headington Hall, and the basements at Headington College and Dunham College). Many of t hese 
areas are controlled access, meaning that you must swipe yo ur OU student ID to enter the refuge area.  
o Students Living in Greek -Affiliated Chapter Housing  
Chapter facilities each have an in-house severe weather refuge area (i.e., basement, interior hallway, 
interior rooms/ restrooms /closets , laundry rooms) .  
o Students Living in Off -Campus Housing  
Identify safe refuge-in -home options utilizing the “get in - get down - cover up” strategy. Specifically, select 
an interior room away from doors and windows on the lowest level of your residence and prepare to use a 
bicycle helmet, pillows and blankets to protect yourself from possible debris. Have a Plan!  
o Do not leave your home to respond to campus.  OU buildings are typically  in use by students, staff and 
faculty for extended hours  each day . If a tornado threat occurs and you have historically used an OU 
building as your primary tornado refuge, prepare now to seek safe refuge at home. Campus locations such 
as the Oklahoma Memorial Union, Gaylord Family  - Oklahoma Memorial Stadium, Lloyd Noble Center, etc. 
will not be open for the purposes of seeking refuge.  
 
Have Multiple Ways of Receiving Weather Information.  
 
• At least one method should work without electric power and without a cellular or Wi -Fi signal, such as a 
battery -operated weather radio.  
• Never rely solely on outdoor warning sirens. The sirens are operated by the City of Norman and can only 
usually be heard if you are outdoors.  
• Stay informed of the latest Norman campus weather forecasts from reliable sources  including the OU 
Department of Campus Safety , the National Weather Service, local media, and university communications. If 
you use social media, make sure you are following O U Campus Safety on Twitter  and Facebook .  
 
Verify Your OU Emergency Contact Information for OU RAVE Alerts.  
 
Emergency contact information currently on record for all OU students, faculty, and staff has been preloaded into 
RAVE. To update or to verify your emergency contact information,  visit ecs.ou.edu.