Skip Navigation
Student Affairs
Welcome to the Division of Student Affairs
The Division of Student Affairs at the University of Oklahoma strives to enhance students' academic success by developing student skills, cultivating diverse campus life experiences, and enriching the university community through programs and services.
Happy Holidays, OU Students!
OU Student Relief Fund
Providing emergency grant funding, previously known as Sooners Helping Sooners, to current Norman and Tulsa campus students affected by unforeseen financial strain, such as natural disasters, theft of personal property, death in the family, and a variety of other circumstances.
Learn About
OU Student Relief Fund
Become A Donor
We are thinking of you, the alumni and friends who generously support the Division of Student Affairs at OU. Give a gift that advances student success through our four pillars - Advocacy, Leadership, Well-Being, and Career Development.
Give A Gift
To Student Affairs
What To Do
Receive a weekly all-in-one email featuring campus events, engagement opportunities and helpful resources tailored for college students.
Join the What To Do
email list!
Report an Incident
At OU, fostering an environment of integrity, respect, and the highest ethical standards is a top priority. Each member of the OU community shares the responsibility of ensuring these values are firmly upheld and concerns are promptly addressed.
Make A Report
C.E.R.T.
The Campus Event Response Team was established to support student well-being and safety during campus protests, demonstrations, and select events during which there is a potential for counter demonstration or emotional triggers and responses.
Learn About C.E.R.T.
B.I.T.
The OU Behavior Intervention Team's focus is care and concern for students, faculty, and staff members who may be in distress. We coordinate resources and implement a centralized response, with the goals of providing assistance to the individual and keeping our community healthy and safe.
Make A Report
Additional Resources
Accessibility and Disability Resource Center (ADRC)
(405) 325-3852 (Voice) / (405) 325-4173 (TDD)
To register with the ADRC and learn more about resources and accomodations, please visit their website:
ou.edu/adrc
Alcohol Concerns
Hotline:
Hazing & Alcohol 24/7 Reporting Hotline:
(405) 325-5000
Counseling:
UCC Alcohol & Drug Counseling Services:
(405) 325-2911 / Goddard Health Center 2nd Floor
Free Transportation:
SafeRide
Oklahoma Memorial Union 181
Behavior Intervention Team (BIT)
(405) 325-7700 /
NormanBIT@ou.edu
/
ou.edu/normanbit
Is someone you know experiencing...
a decline in work or academic performance;
demonstrating disruptive or disturbing behavior;
showing dramatic changes in appearance, behavior or weight;
having problems at home, with classes or work;
abusing alcohol or drugs;
making disturbing comments in coversation, posts, tweets, papers or emails;
struggling with health problems;
frequently angry or easily frustrated;
isolating themselves socially
sad, anxious or experiencing dramatic mood shifts?
Be aware. Show you care. Contact BIT. Your confidential call / email can make a difference.
Make a BIT Report
Campus Event Response Team (C.E.R.T.)
The Campus Event Response Team (C.E.R.T.) was established to support student well-being and safety during campus protests, demonstrations, and select events during which there is a potential for counter demonstration or emotional triggers and responses.
LEARN ABOUT C.E.R.T.
Counseling & Crisis Services
On-Campus:
University Counseling Center (UCC)
(405) 325-2911 / Goddard Health Center 2nd Floor / Walk-Ins 8 a.m.-5 p.m. M-F
Off-Campus:
National 24/7 Hopeline Network
1-800-SUICIDE (784-2433)
1-800-442-HOPE (4673)
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline
1-800-273-TALK (8255)
National Suicide & Crisis Hotline
988 (call or text)
Crisis Questions?
Division of Student Affairs Allocation of Student Activity Fee (SAF) for Sponsorships
The University of Oklahoma Division of Student Affairs is committed to
supporting
student organizations, university departments, and nonprofits by providing sponsorship funds for events that enhance campus life, promote inclusivity, and align with the University's mission. Below you will find all the necessary information, guidelines, and resources to apply for sponsorship funds.
Application Deadline: March 31, 2025
Introduction and Overview
The Division of Student Affairs Fund Allocation aims to empower student organizations, university departments, and nonprofits
to host events that contribute to the vibrant campus culture at OU. This funding is designed to support initiatives that are
community based,
educational, and impactful.
How to Apply
Step 1: Review the Guidelines
Ensure your event meets the criteria outlined below.
Step 2: Prepare Your Proposal
Gather all necessary documents, including a detailed budget and event plan (if applicable). Refer to our
example survey (PDF)
for guidance.
Step 3:
Submit Your Application
Complete the online application form via
OU Engage
.
Submit Your Application
Evaluation Criteria and Proposal Preparation
The applications will be evaluated based on the following criteria:
Historic Standing
: Proper registration, compliance status, and duration at OU for registered student organizations and/or
university department
s.
Third
-
party Historic Standing
:
Alignment with
the mission of Student Affairs
with opportunities for full campus involvement.
Event Funds
: Clarity and adequacy of funding sources and budgeting.
Feasibility of Event
: Logistic viability and timing.
Scope of Event
: Level of campus involvement and advancement of
the Student Affairs mission in alignment
with the Division’s strategic values and priorities.
Number of Expected Attendees
: Estimated attendance and promotional efforts.
Accessibility, Sustainability and Environmental Impact
: Affordability and accessibility for all students, along with the incorporation of sustainable practices and environmental impact considerations.
Historical Longevity
: Historical significance and past impact of event/organization.
Collaboration and Outreach Efforts
: Collaboration with other groups and outreach effectiveness.
Alignment with University Values and Priorities
: Anticipated impact on student development, including co
ntribution to student mental, physical, and emotional wellness,
opportunities for leadership skills enhancement for participants, and facilitation of community service or civic engagement.
For a list of application questions, please download and review the
Division of Student Affairs Sponsorship Fund Allocation Application Survey (PDF)
.
Review and Decision Process
Evaluation
:
Applications are evaluated based on rubric.
Further Review
:
If additional consideration is needed, a review committee comprised of members from the Division of Student Affairs will conduct a thorough evaluation to determine the final allocation.
Timeline
: Applications will be reviewed, and decisions communicated within 30 days following the date of submission.
Deadline is March 31, 2025.
Feedback
: All applicants will receive feedback on their proposals, irrespective of the outcome.
FAQs
Who can apply for the sponsorship funds?
Any OU registered student organization,
university department
or third-party organization (with OU credentials).
What types of events are eligible for funding?
Events that enhance campus life, promote inclusivity, align with the Student Affairs mission, and provide educational, and/or student
community benefits.
How are the applications evaluated?
Applications are evaluated based on a rubric that includes criteria such as feasibility, scope, inclusivity, budget clarity, and alignment with university values.
When is the deadline for application submission?
The deadline for submitting applications is March 31, 2025.
Where can I submit my
application
?
Applications can be submitted online via
OU Engage
.
Who can I contact for more information?
For any questions or additional information, please contact the Division of Student Affairs at:
Phone: (405) 325-3161
Email:
studentaffairs@ou.edu
Are there other funding options?
Yes. For funding opportunities from non-university revenue sources, please visit
ou.edu/studentlife
.
Sponsorship funds are allocated on a first-come, first-served basis until the available funds are exhausted.
OU Advocates
The OU Advocates team works with students, faculty, and staff who experience sexual assault, dating violence, stalking or harrassment. OU Advocates 24/7 Helpline -
405-615-0013.
The University Counseling Center offers 1-on-1 counseling sessions to explore any aspects of your concerns and provide help and tools for moving forward.
OU Advocates
Office of Advocacy & Education
(405) 325-4929
OMU 370
ou.edu/advocacyandeducation
University Counseling Center
(405) 325-2911
Goddard, 2nd floor
ou.edu/ucc
OU Food Pantry
The University of Oklahoma's Food Pantry is a student-run facility that is dedicated to creating a culture of health and wellness within the OU Community.
OU Food Pantry Hours
Tuesdays: 8am – 6pm
Wednesdays-Thursdays: 10am – 6pm
Visit the OU Food Pantry
If you would like to reach the Food Pantry by phone, call the office at (405) 325-2044. If you need to get in touch with the Food Pantry outside of normal business hours, please email at
oupantry@ou.edu
or message via the
Food Pantry Instagram
.
OU Police Department (OUPD)
Emergency (405) 325-1911
Non-Emergency (405) 325-2864
Campus Crimestoppers
(405) 325-STOP
(7867)
OU Police Department
Norman Police Department
Call "911" for emergencies
OU Report IT!
At OU, fostering an environment of integrity, respect, and the highest ethical standards is a top priority. Each member of the OU community shares the responsibility of ensuring these values are firmly upheld and concerns are promptly addressed. The reporting hotline – OU Report It! – provides a simple and anonymous way for employees, students, and community members to report concerns related, but not limited, to: Human Resources, Academics, Safety, Student Affairs, Accounting and Financial, Regulatory/Policy Compliance, Institutional Equity, Athletics and Research.The hotline is hosted by Navex Global, an independent third party, to provide an avenue to confidentially report suspected wrongdoing or unethical behavior without the fear of retaliation.
Violations or concerns may be submitted 24 hours a day through the following methods:
The OU Report It! website has been redesigned to make it easier to submit concerns. To make a report, select the appropriate campus below:
OU Norman Campus:
ou.ethicspoint.com
OU Health Sciences Center:
ouhsc.ethicspoint.com
OU-Tulsa:
outulsa.ethicspoint.com
All campuses governed by the OU Board of Regents:
ouregents.ethicspoint.com
Call: (844) 428-6531
The OU Report It! hotline’s new mobile intake feature makes the reporting process even easier and faster. Access the mobile intake by scanning this QR code:
Policies
There are many policies that govern the operations of the University of Oklahoma, including student events, travel, alcohol use, and more. Please review the policies below.
Student Alcohol Policy
Student Activities Policy (PDF)
Co-Curricular Policy (PDF)
Registered Student Organization (RSO) Policy
Travel Policy
Facility Use Policy
SafeRide
Established in 2004, the Student Alcohol Policy implemented the OU SafeRide program to discourage drinking and driving. The program provides safe, no-cost  transportation for OU students within the designated Norman zone from 10:00 PM to 3:00 AM every Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of the program calendar.
View SafeRide Webpage
Sexual Assault, Stalking, and Dating & Domestic Violence
Reporting Misconduct:
OU Police Department (OUPD)
911 or (405) 325-1911
Sexual Misconduct Office
(405) 325-2215 /
smo@ou.edu
/ Four Partners Place 1000
Support Services:
OU Advocates
(405) 615-0013
Student Code and Procedures
University of Oklahoma students are guaranteed certain rights by the constitutions of the United States and the State of Oklahoma and the University of Oklahoma Student Government Association. The Student Rights and Responsibilities Code of Conduct and Procedures outline what students can expect.
Student Code
Student Tragedy
Report a Student Death
Unfortunately we must face, all too often, the death of one of our OU students. Student Affairs coordinates university business, department notification(s) and communication with the family (when needed) when such a tragedy occurs.
Student Affairs’ involvement will of course, not preclude the involvement of the college or department with the student’s family and/or services. It will be important for anyone who has had a connection to the student to offer their condolences and assistance.
Report a Student Tragedy Online
If you would like to report by phone, call the office at (405) 325-3161.
Assessment
Programs and events under the Division are designed and presented with purpose. Assessment is critical in maintaining the direction of activities and their correlation to our mission and goals.
The purpose of all Student Affairs assessment activities at the University of Oklahoma is to carefully examine the services and programs as they relate directly or indirectly to student learning and success.
Assessment Resources
Assessment Starter
SA Assessment Workbook
Assessment Reports
2018-19 (PDF)
2017-18 (PDF)
2016-17 (PDF)
2015-16 (PDF)
2014-15 (PDF)
2013-14 (PDF)
2012-13 (PDF)
Annual Reports
2018-2021 (PDF)
2015-2016 (PDF)
2014-2015 (PDF)
2013-2014 (PDF)
2012-2013 (PDF)
Social Media & Events
View this profile on Instagram
OU Division of Student Affairs
(@
ou_studentaffairs
) • Instagram photos and videos
Campus Events
Visit Engage to see current campus events and other happenings.
Engage Events
Student Affairs
Oklahoma Memorial Union
900 Asp Avenue, Suite 265
Norman, Oklahoma 73019
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/18/2024 by
Student Affairs
:
studentaffairs@ou.edu