Skip Navigation
Newly Published Research Shows Effectiveness of Novel Nightmare Therapy
NEWS
Graphic demonstrates maintenance cycle of nightmares. Image by Lisa Cromer, Ph.D., LLC.
Newly Published Research Shows Effectiveness of Novel Nightmare Therapy
Randomized clinical trial thought to be first to test nightmare reduction therapy in children
By
April Wilkerson
april-j-wilkerson@ouhsc.edu
Date
Dec. 12, 2024
TULSA, OKLA. –
Recently published research from the University of Oklahoma and the University of Tulsa shows that a new therapy for children with chronic nightmares reduced the number of nightmares and the distress they caused and increased the number of nights a child slept without waking. The study,
published
in
Frontiers in Sleep
, is thought to be the first randomized clinical trial to test a nightmare therapy in children, and it marks a step toward treating nightmares as a distinct disorder and not solely a symptom of another mental health issue.
Research suggests that one in six children with mental health difficulties suffers from chronic nightmares, an estimate that may be conservative because nightmares are rarely included in routine clinical screening. However, nightmares don’t always lessen when a child’s mental health disorder is treated. For example, nightmares are known to be a symptom of PTSD, but when children are successfully treated for their trauma, the nightmares don’t always diminish. That spurred the study’s authors to create and test a therapy to specifically address nightmares regardless of a child’s comorbidities.
“There is a lack of research on nightmares in children; most studies have been done in adults. We really want to get to the root of the issue because when kids suffer from nightmares, they’re scared to go to sleep, which makes them tired and irritable during the day, and they’re prone to behavioral problems – all of which can affect their functioning at school and in other areas of their lives,” said child and adolescent psychiatrist Tara Buck, M.D., an associate professor at the OU School of Community Medicine in Tulsa.
Buck directed the study with Lisa Cromer, Ph.D., a professor of psychology at the University of Tulsa and a volunteer child psychiatry faculty member at OU School of Community Medicine in Tulsa. Cromer led the development of the therapy, beginning with a pediatric adaptation of an adult nightmare therapy and refining it through pilot studies. The therapy comprises five weekly sessions that educate youth about the importance of sleep, create the motivation for habits that can improve sleep, and guide children to “rewrite” their nightmares into pleasant dreams.
Before treatment began, student participants received a box in the mail with items they would use during the study, including “boggle goggles” that help children better understand the effects of being sleep-deprived (the goggles’ traditional use is to demonstrate impairment from alcohol). Children also received a pillowcase and markers to write or draw pictures of things they wanted to think about at bedtime. Cromer and her team designed the treatment to be developmentally appropriate and interactive.
“The treatment uses cognitive behavioral therapy but also incorporates relaxation strategies, mindfulness, stress management and visualization to change the structure of dreams. We also help them create a plan to use if they do have nightmares so they can ‘change the channel’ and go back to sleep,” Cromer said. “At the core of the model is self-efficacy. Every unit teaches them that they can be the director of their dreams. We hypothesize that is the effective mechanism of change.”
The trial enrolled 46 youth from across Oklahoma ranging in age from 6 to 17, with an average age of 12. Notably, they had been having persistent nightmares for no less than six months and, in some cases, for years. Participants were randomly assigned to receive the treatment or to be in a control group that tracked their nightmares but received no therapy. Once the trial was complete, children in the control group were provided the therapy.
In addition to seeing a statistically significant reduction in nightmares, the research team also measured suicidal thinking related to nightmares. Previous research has shown a correlation between nightmares and suicidality in youth over time. In this study, five children in each group reported suicidal thinking at the start of the trial. At its completion, only one youth in the treatment group reported continued suicidal thoughts, compared to four in the control group.
Because the trial began during the COVID-19 pandemic, the study team modified the treatment for telehealth. The trial was designed with minimal exclusion criteria because Buck and Cromer wanted to test the therapy in a range of children, such as those who had ADHD or learning disabilities. Children with sleep apnea were excluded because their sleep problems needed medical attention.
In the future, Buck and Cromer would like to obtain funding to test their nightmare therapy in a larger trial that follows children over a longer period of time. They are also adapting the therapy for various ethnicities and cultures, and they’ve launched a study to screen for nightmares in a primary care setting. Their efforts represent a paradigm shift in pediatric care. In their training, neither was taught to ask about nightmares during a clinical visit, nor do children and families bring up nightmares.
“We may talk about strategies for addressing a child’s anxiety during a clinical exam, but only now are we starting to address nightmares directly,” Cromer said. “Nightmares can trap children in a cycle. They remember the nightmare and may stay hypervigilant or avoidant at bedtime. Then, they don’t get enough sleep and become more anxious, which makes them more likely to continue having nightmares. It’s exciting to have a therapy that appears to significantly reduce nightmares and related distress.”
About the Project
The study can be found at
https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/sleep/articles/10.3389/frsle.2024.1401023/full
. Funding for the study was provided by the Oklahoma Center for Advancement of Science and Technology, the OU College of Medicine Alumni Association, and the University of Tulsa Office of Research and Sponsored Programs Faculty Research Grant.
About the University of Oklahoma
Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university with campuses in Norman, Oklahoma City and Tulsa. As the state’s flagship university, OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. In Oklahoma City, OU Health Sciences is one of the nation’s few academic health centers with seven health profession colleges located on the same campus. OU Health Sciences serves approximately 4,000 students in more than 70 undergraduate and graduate degree programs spanning Oklahoma City and Tulsa and is the leading research institution in Oklahoma. For more information about OU Health Sciences, visit
www.ouhsc.edu
.
Recent News
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 20, 2024
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
Read more
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
James George, M.D., and Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
Read more
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
More OU News
OU News
339 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73069
marcomm@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/12/2024 by
OU News
:
cmshelp@ou.edu