Skip Navigation
Visitor Center
Welcome to the University of Oklahoma
We are excited that the Jones Family Welcome Center at Jacobson Hall is undergoing renovations! Campus tours will continue through the renovation, and we want to make sure you have a memorable experience while on campus.
Tour Parking
Prospective students and guests will need a parking permit displayed throughout the duration of their campus visit. View available parking options below.
Parking Map (pdf)
Tour Check In
Campus Tours are currently located in the Oklahoma Memorial Union. Head to Beaird Lounge, located on the 2nd floor for your tour.
Campus Tour FAQs
Campus Map
Find your way around OU’s campus. Physical campus maps are available in Buchanan Hall and in the mailbox outside of the Oklahoma Memorial Union.
Campus Map (PDF)
Self-Guided Tour
Explore campus with this general overview and historical points of interest. You can enjoy campus at your own pace and convenience.
Top 10 Things to See (pdf)
Frequently
Asked Questions
I’m a visitor and I need help navigating parking on-campus today.
Where do I park on campus for a tour?
Visitor parking is available for guests who come on a registered campus tour and can be found on the
Office of Admissions & Recruitment’s website
.
After registering online for a campus tour, visitors will receive a link to their personalized parking pass within their confirmation email.
If you forget your parking permit, we will be able to provide one for you when you check in for your tour at the Oklahoma Memorial Union - Beaird Lounge, located on the 2nd floor.
What about general visitor parking on campus?
OU Parking Services offers parking passes for visitors, as certain spaces and areas in campus parking facilities are designated for use by visitors.
OU Parking Maps
are available online. One-day visitor permits are $3 and can be purchased
online
. Pay stations and metered spaces are also available.
I need to talk to someone in the Office of Admissions & Recruitment today.
I am a prospective freshman, transfer, or international student. How do I meet with an Admissions Counselor* or someone with the Office of Admissions & Recruitment?
Prospective freshmen can visit the Office of Admissions & Recruitment - Freshmen Admissions located in
Whitehand Hall
,
Room 101.
Prospective transfer and international students can visit the Office of Admissions & Recruitment - Transfer & International Admissions located in
Buchanan Hall
, Room 127.
I am a prospective graduate student. How do I talk to someone about graduate admissions?
Prospective graduate students can visit the Graduate College located in
Robertson Hall
Room 213.
I’m a current high school student. How do I talk to someone about concurrent enrollment?
Prospective concurrent enrollment students can visit the Office of Admissions & Recruitment – Freshman Admissions located in
Whitehand Hall
, Room 101.
Where do I talk to someone about a campus tour?
Students can visit the Office of Admissions & Recruitment - Campus Experience located in
Oklahoma Memorial Union
, 2nd Floor, Room 207.
Where do I go if I have specific questions about the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), verification, bursar bill payment plans, or student loan questions?
Students can visit to the
Student Financial Center
to meet with a Student Service Expert, located in
Buchanan Hall
,
Room 105.
*Admissions counselors are here to help you explore academics, resources, scholarship, and financial options and answer any application or post-admission questions you and your family may have.
I need to drop off a transcript or I have questions about my transcript.
Where can I drop off a transcript or ask questions about my transcript?
For prospective students, head to the Office of Admissions & Recruitment located in
Buchanan Hall
, Room 127 to drop off your transcript or ask questions about your transcript.
I’m an OU alumni visiting campus.
Where can I visit while on campus?
To explore campus, review our
campus map
and
self-guided tour
. If you would like to see a list of upcoming Alumni events on campus or to find fellow alumni near you, visit the
Alumni Association
.
Jones Family Welcome Center
The University of Oklahoma received a $15 million gift from longtime supporters Jonny and Brenda Jones to help fund the renovation and expansion of Jacobson Hall. Building construction began in Summer 2023, and campus tours will continue through the renovation.
Renovation Updates
Contact Us
900 Asp Avenue
Suite 207
Norman, OK 73019
Email:
tour@ou.edu
Phone:
(405) 325-2151
Quick Links
Schedule a Campus Tour
Self-Guided Tour
Schedule a Virtual Tour
Campus Tour FAQs
Campus Map
OU Visitor Center
Jacobson Hall
550 Parrington Oval
Norman, Oklahoma 73019
(405) 325-2151
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/13/2024 by
OU Visitor Center
:
tour@ou.edu