Skip Navigation
Campus Life | OU-Tulsa
Life at OU-Tulsa
Take me back to Tulsa!
OU-Tulsa is located in Northeast Oklahoma, among the rolling hills of Green Country. Our
60-acre midtown Tulsa
campus
is a colorful place where everyone belongs, with a student population comprised of young adults just starting their journey through life, students seeking degrees while working and raising families, and lifelong learners pursuing their second or third degree.
There truly is
something for everyone
here, a serene place to learn, study and make your career goals come true.
Link Drop-down options
Resources for
Future Students
Current Students
OU Polytechnic
Faculty and Staff
Residents
Alumni
Amenities and Campus Resources
OU-Tulsa offers a number of amenities and services at our midtown Tulsa campus, including a cafe, a bustling student area, fitness center, student health clinic, as well as career and personal counseling.
Student Affairs
The mission of OU-Tulsa Student Affairs is to provide resources and opportunities, unite a diverse student population, respect each student's experiences and goals, and enhance the development of the whole student.
International Student Services
OU ISS has been providing services to international students for over fifty years. OU-Tulsa welcomes international students in all of our programs.
OU-Tulsa students connect to the spirit and history of the University of Oklahoma while living in the vibrant Tulsa metro area. Many of our students have roots here: family, friends, and jobs, while others come to Tulsa specifically to study with our world-class faculty and participate in internationally recognized research. Here, the opportunities for connection and camaraderie are endless. Come carve out your piece of OU-Tulsa and become part of the more than 125-year tradition that is the University of Oklahoma.
Accessibility
Campus Safety
News
Tulsa Community
Campus Events
See more events
Tweets by outulsa
Skip Facebook Widget
OU - Tulsa
Schusterman Center
4502 E. 41st Street
Tulsa, OK 74135
(918) 660-3000
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 9/27/2023 by
OU - Tulsa
:
pappas@ou.edu