Skip Navigation
Incoming Class
search
Class of
2028
The University of Oklahoma announced that the Class of 2028 is the largest freshman class in the school’s 134-year history, representing the largest class in the state’s history and the most Oklahoma residents of any other incoming class at the university.
We are thrilled to welcome the largest incoming freshman class in the history of the University of Oklahoma, marking a pivotal moment in our ongoing transformation. This dynamic group of students joins us during an exciting era of growth and innovation. At OU, they will benefit from an education that not only opens doors to real-world opportunities but also prepares them to make a significant impact. Our commitment to providing a world-class experience and fostering meaningful connections ensures that their OU degree will be a powerful asset in their futures.
Jeff Blahnik, Vice President for the Division of Enrollment Management
5593
Largest Incoming Class Ever
3.63
Incoming GPA Average
25.4%
First-Generation
College Students
243
Ranked #1 in their High School Class
26
Average ACT Score
Class of 2028, welcome to the Sooner family! It's time to begin your journey and create a legacy on campus. Here's to the next few years filled with exciting experiences, challenges, and impactful opportunities. From your first football game to the time you walk across the stage, embrace every moment. Make new friends and explore all that OU has to offer. Remember to take things one step at a time and ask questions along the way. You've got this!
Katie Dorrough, Admissions Counselor
83
Davis United World College Scholars
728
Oklahoma's Promise Students
649
Students with
4.0 GPA
I am so thrilled to have you in our OU family. You bring diverse perspectives, unique experiences, and rich cultural backgrounds that will undoubtedly contribute to the excellence of our esteemed institution. You are already fearless, determined, empowered to lead, and embracing endless possibilities. Thank you for choosing OU as your home for the next few years.
Nayifa Nihad, International Admissions Counselor
Class of 2028 Photo
Zoom-in to see the faces of the largest incoming class in OU history.
Final enrollment reports for the semester will be available the third week of classes.
Data from previous years can be found through OU’s
Office of Institutional Research and Reporting
.
Admissions & Recruitment
550 Parrington Oval
Norman, OK 73019
(405) 325-2151
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 9/11/2024 by
Admissions & Recruitment
:
admissions@ou.edu