Skip Navigation
Gaylord College of Journalism and Mass Communication
The Gaylord Difference
Our students graduate from Gaylord College of Journalism and Mass Communication to become journalists, creative directors, writers and videographers, to name just a few of the potential career paths.
But really, we’d say what Gaylord College students do is much bigger than a job title. Our students are more than just students.
At Gaylord College, they become storytellers, thinkers, creators and innovators, using their degrees from a college that provides
endless professional opportunities in dynamic industries around the world
.
News
News
Gaylord College Unveils Transformational Television Set, Gifted by Griffin Media
October 31, 2024
The Gaylord College of Journalism and Mass Communication at the University of Oklahoma is proud to unveil its new television set—a transformational gift from Griffin Media.
Read more
Gaylord College Unveils Transformational Television Set, Gifted by Griffin Media
Faculty Publication
Gaylord College Faculty and Doctoral Students Develop New Public Relations Textbook to Support Student Experience Fund
October 30, 2024
Gaylord College faculty and doctoral students have recently developed “Public Relations Principles, Origins, and Practice,” a textbook designed to provide students with foundational and practical knowledge in public relations.
Read more
Gaylord College Faculty and Doctoral Students Develop New Public Relations Textbook to Support Student Experience Fund
Faculty Achievement
OU Advertising Instructor Elected Vice Chair of the AAF National Education Executive Council
September 26, 2024
Armand McCoy, advertising instructor and executive director of Lindsey + Asp at Gaylord College, has been elected vice chair of the American Advertising Federation’s (AAF) National Education Executive Council (NEEC).
Read more
OU Advertising Instructor Elected Vice Chair of the AAF National Education Executive Council
View All News >
In its rankings of student achievements, the
Broadcast Education Association
has recognized the
Gaylord College of Journalism and Mass Communication at the University of Oklahoma as the No. 2 program in the country
out of 170 member institutions nationwide.
Read more about Gaylord's BEA rankings
No. 2
Gaylord College ranked No. 2 in
overall program rankings
No. 1
In film and video programs
No. 2
In news programs
No. 4
In sports programs
No. 3
In scriptwriting program
2
Gaylord Hall includes two state-of-the-art open multimedia labs available for students.
4
Gaylord Hall includes four complete digital broadcast studios.
5
Gaylord Hall includes five computer classrooms.
12
Gaylord Hall includes 12 video editing bays.
Join a Top 10 Program
Studying from top professors alongside inspiring colleagues. Make OU your home, and join the Gaylord family.
Apply
100,000 Square-Feet
Gaylord Hall has more than 100,000 square-feet
of high-tech classroom, presentation, studio, and computer lab space.
See Our Facilities
AEJMC Founding Member
The Gaylord College of Journalism and Mass Communication is a founding member of the ACEJMC. The college has had continuous accreditation since 1948.
Learn from our Faculty
Welcome Dean Andrea Miller!
Read The Dean's Message
Gaylord College
395 W. Lindsey, Room 3000
Norman, OK 73019
Main: (405) 325-2721
Advising: (405) 325-5684
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 10/31/2024 by
Gaylord College
:
katykoontz@ou.edu