Skip Navigation
Sustainability
OU Homepage
Search OU
The University of Oklahoma
Skip Side Navigation
Home
Campus Efforts
Sustainability Map
Academics and Research
Environmental Concerns Committee
Get Involved
Contact Us
The University of Oklahoma Sustainability Office
Being GREEN with the Crimson & Cream
As an institution of higher education, the University of Oklahoma recognizes our unique role and responsibility to serve as a committed steward of the earth and its resources.  Through education, innovation and tangible actions, the University seeks to provide for its students, faculty and staff awareness of and progress toward sustainability.
Sign the Crimson & Green Commitment Today!
The online Crimson & Green Commitment invites members of the OU community to make a personal pledge to sustainability, encouraging eco-friendly habits in our everyday lives. All students, faculty, and staff can make their commitment by logging in and completing the Qualtrics survey.
Make Your Commitment Today
EPA Green Power Partnership College and University Challenge
The University of Oklahoma currently ranks first in the Big 12 and fourteenth in the nation among higher education institutions in the EPA’s Green Power Partnership.  The University was honored by the EPA as the 2012 Green Power Partner of the Year and has been the largest purchaser of green energy in the Big 12 since initiation of the EPA’s challenge in academic year 2012-2013.
EPA’s Green Power Partnership
Bicycle Registration Information
If you're bringing a bike to campus this fall, you can register it for free to help prevent theft. This applies to all OU community members, students, faculty, and staff.
You can register anytime by mail or in person with the necessary paperwork at the Radar Innovations Lab. Registering reduces the likelihood of theft and improves recovery chances.
More Information
Environmental Excellence
In the spring of 2016 the university received an Environmental Excellence Award from the Earth Month Network to acknowledge OU’s campus, community and global outreach efforts to provide environmental programming and events during the time period of World Water Day, March 25th, through Earth Day, April 22nd.
More Information
Princeton Review Green Campus Green College
The University has been selected six consecutive times by the Princeton Review to be featured in the Green Guide based on data from surveys of hundreds of four-year colleges concerning commitments to the environment and sustainability.
Green Guide
Bicycle Friendly University
The University of Oklahoma was recognized by the League of American Bicyclists as a Bicycle Friendly University in 2014, with a bronze distinction. In 2017, the university’s distinction was advanced to silver as a result of improvements to new and existing bike lanes, the bike share program, and the new comprehensive website. Learn more about
Bicycle Friendly University Programs.
ou.edu/bike
Office of Sustainability
660 Parrington Oval
Norman, OK 73019
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Accreditation
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources & Offices
OU Report It!
Sustainability Social Media
facebook
twitter
instagram
more
Updated 8/28/2024 by
Office of Sustainability
:
sustainability@ou.edu