Skip Navigation
Brand
Welcome to the University of Oklahoma brand
Our brand is much more than a logo, or our history. Our brand is what students, parents, faculty, alumni, partners, peers and outside observers all think, feel and respond to when they encounter anything and everything “Sooner Magic.”
Since 1890, our university has been a center for higher learning in Oklahoma. We have long been an epicenter for intellectual growth, personal progress and economic development for our region and beyond. We are hardworking and hopeful, proud yet practical. We are a top-tier public research university, while also uniquely grounded in the grit and authenticity of our Oklahoma home. All these elements influence the look, feel and tone reflected in our brand standards.
Using the Brand Guidelines
Great brands build strong bonds with their audiences by being consistent. They are instantly recognizable and immediately stand for something. They communicate a consistent message, despite the fact that they may be speaking to very different people from very different places.
This website is intended for those responsible for creating marketing and communication materials for the University of Oklahoma. Our brand will live in many spaces, flexing naturally across digital, print, social and video. Following these guidelines will maintain consistency, but they are not intended to simply regulate creative work. They are meant to clarify and inspire, to define and unify, to serve as a guide and a platform for building the brand out and making it real.
Brand Strategy
Our brand strategy defines who we are and what we stand for.
It is an authentic and aspirational foundation for how we differentiate ourselves in the market.
Learn About Our Brand Strategy
Creative Platform
This is where it gets real.
The creative platform is how we express our brand and tell a unified story.
Learn About Our Creative Platform
Design System
Design, typography, colors, photo treatments – it carries the brand from the words we use to the unified look.
Learn About Our Design System
Logos and Wordmarks
Logos, wordmarks, the OU Seal – find usage for each and practical application.
Learn About Our Brand Identity
Marcomm Web Team
Whitehand Hall
339 W. Boyd Street
Suites 334 & 335
Norman, OK 73019-3203
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 3/19/2024 by
Marcomm Web Team
:
cmshelp@ou.edu