Skip Navigation
Policies
Policies
Privacy Policy
The University of Oklahoma is committed to respecting your privacy. Should you choose to provide us with any personal information, it will only be used by The University of Oklahoma to conduct official University business.
Read the full
privacy policy
.
Expressive Activity Annual Report
Read the full Expressive Activity Annual Report (pdf).
To report incidents to the Oklahoma State Regents Free Speech Committee, please use the link:
Free Speech Violation Complaint Form
Report Your Event
All Youth Protection events must be reported to Enterprise Risk Management. Please click the button below to report your event. A member of the Enterprise Risk Management team will contact you to ensure compliance with all Youth Protection policies.
Report Your Event
Youth Protection Policy
In-Person
Policy for the Norman Campus
The University of Oklahoma has numerous campus locations and a variety of events that attract minors, whether sponsored by the University or by third parties. This policy is meant to serve as guidance for these valuable experiences. Please note, this policy may not encompass each and every encounter with a minor and should be flexible depending on the circumstances and with the approval of either a supervisor in charge of the area or facility or by the Risk Management Department in coordination with the Office of Legal Counsel.
Below is the link to “Youth Protection Policy”
Youth Protection Policy (doc)
Virtual
In response to the COVID-19 restrictions, the Youth Protection Committee has created the University Virtual Programs Youth Protection Policy and Release forms that can be utilized for University sponsored programs for minors if employees wish to host activities in a virtual format.
Youth Protection Form H: Virtual Programs for Youth Release (pdf)
Youth Protection Form I: Third Party Virtual Release (docx)
Youth Protection Policy (doc)
Youth Protection Policy: Training
OU Employee and Student Training
Youth Protection training for OU employees
and
students is now self-enroll and can be taken online through the OnPoint Library under the Risk Management Training topic. Found here:
OnPoint
However, if you are required to take the training on an annual basis by your department, then you can request an ePAF by contacting your HR/Payroll coordinator for your department.
Non-University Entities/Third Party Training
Training for Non-University – Third Party Entities (pdf)
In addition, related checklists and forms for events involving minors are collected as separate documents for ease of use and submission. Please read “Youth Protection Policy” for the Norman Campus for more information about the checklists and forms. Submission information is below.
Youth Protection Policy: Event Forms
Attachment A – Third Party Events Sponsor Acknowledgement
Attachment A
– Third Party Events Sponsor Acknowledgement.  For use with Third parties. To be completed by person in charge of sponsoring the Event.
Attachment A (pdf)
Attachment B – Event Protocols and Acknowledgment
Attachment B
– Event Protocols and Acknowledgment. For use with University and Third parties. To be completed by person in charge of sponsoring the Event.
Attachment B (pdf)
Attachment C – Minors Release form (University Sponsored Events)
Attachment C
– Youth Release form (University Sponsored Events) Parent/guardian signs to approve youth participation in Event.
Attachment C (pdf)
Attachment D – Minors Release form (Third Party Sponsored Events)
Attachment D
– Youth Release form (Third Party Sponsored Events) Parent/guardian signs to approve youth participation in Event.
Attachment D (pdf)
Attachment E – Group Visitation form for Field Trips/Tours
Attachment E
– Group Visitation form for Field Trips/Tours
Attachment E (pdf)
Attachment F – Laboratory Voluntary Release form for Minors in Labs
Attachment F
– Laboratory Voluntary Release form for Youth in Labs
Attachment F (pdf)
Attachment G – Voluntary Mentor Research Experience in Labs
Attachment G
– Voluntary Mentor Research Experience in Labs
Attachment G (pdf)
OU Report IT!
At OU, fostering an environment of integrity, respect, and the highest ethical standards is a top priority. Each member of the OU community shares the responsibility of ensuring these values are firmly upheld and concerns are promptly addressed.  The reporting hotline – OU Report It! – provides a simple and anonymous way for employees, students, and community members to report concerns related, but not limited, to: Human Resources, Academics, Safety, Student Affairs, Accounting and Financial, Regulatory/Policy Compliance, Institutional Equity, Athletics and Research.  The hotline is hosted by Navex Global, an independent third party, to provide an avenue to confidentially report suspected wrongdoing or unethical behavior without the fear of retaliation.  Violations or concerns may be submitted 24 hours a day through the following methods:
Phone:
(
844) 428-6531
Online:
The OU Report It! website has been redesigned to make it easier to submit concerns. To make a report, select the appropriate campus below:
OU Norman Campus:
ou.ethicspoint.com
OU-Tulsa:
outulsa.ethicspoint.com
Mobile:
The OU Report It! hotline’s new mobile intake feature makes the reporting process even easier and faster. Access the mobile intake by scanning this QR code:
Additional Policies and Information
University of Oklahoma Policies
Office of Policy Management
Student Consumer Information
Student Consumer Information
Student Life – Student Handbook
Alcohol Policy
Co-Curricular Involvement Policy
Facility Use Policy
Open Social Event Policy
Risk Management Policy
Risk Management Requirement Matrix
Student Travel Policy
15-Passenger Van Policy
Emergency Procedures
Review OU Emergency Procedures
Tornado Safety Information
Equal Opportunity
The University of Oklahoma is an Equal Opportunity Employer
Institutional Equity Office
Branding & Licensing
Print, Web and Licensing Guidelines & Requirements
Campus Contacts
If your event does not relate to Athletics, please submit forms via email, fax OR mail to:
Norman Campus Contact
youthprotection@ou.edu
Risk Management
Cathy Krane
cathykrane@ou.edu
(405) 325-2490 option 2
OUPD: (405) 325-2864
Title IX Office: (405) 325-2215
Norman policy link for Form C
Health Sciences Center Contact
youthprotection@ouhsc.edu
Risk Management:
Jennie Robison
jennie-robison@ouhsc.edu
(405) 271-3287
OUHSC PD (405) 271-4300
Title IX Office: (405) 271-2110
HSC policy link for Form C
OU-Tulsa Contact
For Norman campus programs, use Norman Risk Management contacts.
For HSC and Tulsa Administrative programs, use HSC Risk Management contacts.
Risk Management Coordinator:
Tyler Steele
(918) 660-3878
OU-Tulsa PD:  (918) 660-3900
Title IX Office: (918) 660-3107
Tulsa policy link for Form C
Athletics Contact
Bryant Houk
bhouk@ou.edu
(405) 325-8203
The University of Oklahoma
660 Parrington Oval,
Norman, OK 73019-0390
(405) 325-0311
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 1/29/2024 by
The University of Oklahoma
:
marcomm@ou.edu