Skip Navigation
Office of Research Services Home
Office of Research Services
In alignment with the University’s closure for the upcoming Winter Break, ORS will be closed from December 23, 2024, through January 1, 2025, reopening on January 2, 2025. Please see the following information for proposal and award actions.
Please Note: These deadlines are in place to help process proposals and awards before the Winter Break. Pursuant to VPRP policy, proposals and award documents received after these deadlines are permitted but may not be processed until after the Winter Break.
Proposals—If you plan to submit a proposal during the holiday break or within three days of the reopening (e.g., January 2nd, 3rd, or 4th), please submit all final documents to ORS on or before December 19th. ORS will not be conducting any business during the holiday break.
Agreements that must be executed before the Holiday Break must be submitted to ORS by December 9, 2024.
The goal of the Office of Research Services (ORS) under the Vice President for Research and Partnerships (VPRP) is to function as a highly trained, customer service-oriented organization whose primary purpose is to support externally funded research and sponsored activities within the university community. ORS has responsibility for pre-award and award administration on the Norman campus and Norman campus-related programs on the Tulsa campus. ORS is the institutional unit authorized by the Board of Regents to submit proposals to and accept awards from external entities for financial support in the form of grants, contracts, and cooperative or other agreements.
For general questions, call the ORS main phone number, (405) 325-4757, or contact us at
ris@ou.edu
.
Calculate Your Submission Processing Timeline(MM/DD/YYYY):
Enter the Sponsor Deadline Date
These dates are recommended for a successful submission.
Your Processing TimeLine
Due to Pre-Award
1. Submit an Information Sheet and Develop Draft Budget:
2. Obtain Subcontracts and Costshare Materials(if needed):
3. Provide Draft SOW / Summary, OU Budget Template, Draft Budget Justification:
4. Provide Final Documents for Submission:
Office of Research Services
consists of five units:
Research Information Services (RIS)
Research Information Services (RIS) distributes ORS announcements (e.g., funding opportunities, ORS newsletter), oversees sponsor accounts and portal access information, and manages
limited submission
announcements and internal competitions. For general questions, contact
ris@ou.edu
.
Proposal Services
Proposal Services (PS) assists with budget development, sponsor guideline interpretation, proposal submission, and obtaining some sponsor forms/certifications. For a list of PS contacts, please review the
contact list
.
Award Administration
Award Administration (AA) is responsible for negotiating and accepting all sponsored awards and agreements funded by federal and state agencies, business and industry, and other public and private sources on behalf of the University of Oklahoma. The sponsored project award document is an official binding agreement that sets forth the parties’ rights and obligations and governs the sponsored project's conduct. AA reviews awards to ensure compliance with Federal and State Laws, university and sponsor policies and procedures in accomplishing the statement of work within the awarded budget. AA provides an infrastructure supporting the principal investigator (PI), the primary individual responsible for scientific integrity and fiscal and administrative management throughout the award period.
To identify your AA contact, please review the
contact list
.
Training and Development
The Office of Research Services (ORS) provides in-person, online, and recorded training events for faculty and staff. The goal of these training opportunities is to provide information, examples, and other resources to assist researchers in developing more competitive proposals and grow the OU research enterprise. To view a list of upcoming and recorded events, visit our
Training and Development
page.
Data Management
Data Management generates proposal and award data from its Cayuse grants management software. These reports are prepared monthly by the Data Manager and are posted to the ORS website. The Data Manager also administers the ORS dashboard for sponsored research data, which is built on Microsoft Power BI and allows export of information filtered by criteria selections. The Data Manager also provides custom reports as needed from the proposal and award data. Contact the
Data Manager
to request custom report needs, research proposal and award data questions, and help with the Cayuse system.
Quick links
Submit Proposal Information Sheet
Cayuse Research Administration
Staff Directory
Obtaining Accounts and Registrations
For post-award questions, contact
Research Financial Services
(ReFS) at
refsinfo@ou.edu
.
Vice President for Research and Partnerships
Five Partners Place
201 Stephenson Pkwy
Norman, OK 73019-9705
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/2/2024 by
Vice President for Research and Partnerships
:
researchnews@ou.edu