Skip Navigation
Price College of Business
There's Only One Price College
Nearly a century of innovation and vision: that’s what it takes to be the University of Oklahoma. And it’s what makes the University of Oklahoma's Michael F. Price College of Business #1 in Oklahoma, and a powerhouse in the region.
Get a Future-Focused Education
From accounting to business analytics, finance to supply chain management, Price students are ready to lead in a changing world. Whether you're a budding entrepreneur with a billion-dollar idea or a manager with C-suite aspirations, a Price education is one of the smartest investments you can make.
Explore Undergrad Programs
Explore Graduate Programs
Your MBA, Your Way
Level up your leadership and management skills with an MBA that fits your schedule. With in-person, online, and evening courses available, The advanced degrees from the Gene Rainbolt Graduate College of Business were designed for busy working professionals.
Explore MBA Options
Strengthen Your Network
The relationships between Price alums, students, faculty, and staff form a global network of connections and opportunities. Support the college, expand your network, and connect with up-and-coming talent here.
Hire OU Grads
Give to Price
A Nexus of Knowledge
As a top-tier comprehensive research university, discovery and discourse are in our DNA. The award-winning faculty at Price are devoted to advancing understanding of business and economics today, and creating a prosperous tomorrow.
Meet the Faculty
Explore Research Centers
PRICE BY THE NUMBERS
#1
BBA in Management Information Systems
Best Value Schools
#1
Energy Graduate Program
Oil and Gas Investor
#2
Global University Entrepreneurship Research Productivity
TCU Global
#5
ROI for MBA programs in the nation
Bloomberg
#6
Top Affordable Accelerated Executive MBA Online Program
BestCollegesOnline.org
Price in the News
Campus & Community
December 12, 2024
OU Student Turns Passion for Numbers into a Career
For Rafael Ramos, growing up in Altus, Oklahoma, meant learning the value of hard work in his family’s restaurants. This December, he earns his second degree from the University of Oklahoma, a Master of Accountancy, as he prepares to launch his career with Ernst & Young.
Read more
Read article: OU Student Turns Passion for Numbers into a Career
Read article: OU Student Turns Passion for Numbers into a Career
Campus & Community
December 10, 2024
OU Student Combines Passion for Dance with Marketing Ambitions
When Avery Bennett imagined her college years, she dreamed of a place where she could grow both academically and artistically. This December, she graduates from OU with a 4.0 GPA, earning a Bachelor of Business Administration in marketing and a Bachelor of Fine Arts in dance.
Read more
Read article: OU Student Combines Passion for Dance with Marketing Ambitions
Read article: OU Student Combines Passion for Dance with Marketing Ambitions
View All News
Price College of Business
307 West Brooks
Norman, OK 73019-4004
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/5/2024 by
Price College of Business
:
pricecollege@ou.edu