Skip Navigation
Higher Education Chancellor Presents Plan to Meet Workforce Needs During Tour at OU Health Sciences
NEWS
Sean Burrage, chancellor of the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education, presents the group's upcoming legislative agenda and funding request. Photo by Travis Caperton.
Higher Education Chancellor Presents Plan to Meet Workforce Needs During Tour at OU Health Sciences
By
April Wilkerson
april-j-wilkerson@ouhsc.edu
Date
Dec. 18, 2024
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLA. –
Increasing degree completion to strengthen Oklahoma’s workforce pipeline in education, health care and STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) fields continues to be the state system of higher education’s top priority. That was the message delivered by Chancellor Sean Burrage as he presented the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education’s 2025 legislative agenda and FY26 budget request to an audience of lawmakers, community leaders and educators at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences campus on Dec. 17.
For FY26, the State Regents request an increase of $95 million, or 9.3% over the FY25 appropriation.
“Producing more college graduates to meet Oklahoma’s most pressing workforce needs is our primary goal,” Burrage said. “Our FY26 budget request for public higher education clearly demonstrates the state system’s commitment to expanding the labor force in critical occupations and incentivizing academic and operational innovations as outlined in our Blueprint 2030 strategic plan.”
The State Regents seek $9.3 million for FY26 to fund implementation of the Strong Readers Act provisions and expand concurrent enrollment.
Public higher education’s budget request also includes strategic investments that align with Oklahoma’s projected workforce demand in STEM and health care and focus on increasing adult degree completion. The State Regents request $42 million for critical workforce development initiatives, including funds to increase enrollment and graduation in STEM, nursing, and other health care disciplines and provide additional scholarships for adult students.
The State Regents also seek $43.7 million in FY26 to fund performance-based institutional allocations; strengthen college access and academic success services and FAFSA completion; expand student scholarships; fund innovations and efficiency initiatives; and enhance campus physical and cyber security. Additionally, the State Regents will advocate for institution-specific allocations of $403 million to meet campus needs, including system and structure maintenance projects, and fund strategic collaborations.
Expanding the Oklahoma Equal Opportunity Scholarship Act tax credit is also a priority for the State Regents in the upcoming legislative session. Authorizing the tax credit for donor contributions to fund need-based scholarships for students attending public colleges and universities will support efforts to increase Oklahoma’s college-educated workforce.
Another priority for the State Regents in the upcoming legislative session is refining the Oklahoma’s Promise scholarship to reduce administrative barriers to student access and participation. Strategies may include developing an appeal process to assist students facing unique circumstances and extending the application deadline to ensure no qualified student is excluded. Recognized by many as one of the top promise scholarship programs in the country, Oklahoma’s Promise is considered a national model that emphasizes both academic preparation and financial support for college. To learn more or to apply online, visit
https://okpromise.org/
.
About the University of Oklahoma
Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university located in Norman, Oklahoma. As the state’s flagship university, OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. For more information about the university, visit
www.ou.edu
.
Recent News
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 20, 2024
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
Read more
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
James George, M.D., and Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
Read more
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
More OU News
OU News
339 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73069
marcomm@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/18/2024 by
OU News
:
cmshelp@ou.edu