Skip Navigation
Policies & Procedures
Policies & Procedures
Link Drop-down options
Additional information on:
Non-Discrimination Policy
Sexual Misconduct Discrimination & Harassment
Affirmative Action
Pay Transparency
Disabilities
Non-Discrimination
University policy prohibits retaliation against a person for filing a complaint of discrimination or harassment under this policy or other applicable federal, state, or local laws. This policy also prohibits retaliation against any person who assists someone with a complaint of discrimination or harassment or who participates in any manner in an investigation or resolution of a complaint of discrimination or harassment.
Non-Discrimination Policy (pdf)
Investigative Process for Internal Complaints Under the Non-Discrimination Policy (pdf)
Sexual Misconduct
Sexual Misconduct, Discrimination and Harassment Policy (for incidents occurring before 8/14/2020) (pdf)
Sexual Misconduct, Discrimination, and Harassment Policy (pdf)
Grievance Procedures for Formal Complaints of Sexual Harassment and Misconduct (for incidents occurring on or after 8/14/2020) (pdf)
Updated 7/28/22
Grievance Procedures for Formal Complaints of Sexual Harassment and Misconduct (for incidents before 8/14/2020) (pdf)
Consensual Sexual Relationships Policy (pdf)
Forms and Brochures
Student Brochure (pdf)
Faculty/Staff Brochure (pdf)
VAWA (Violence Against Women Act) Brochure (pdf)
Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Brochure (pdf)
Equal Opportunity Grievance Form (pdf)
For additional information on University policies and procedures, refer to the:
Norman Campus Faculty Handbook
HSC Faculty Handbook (pdf)
Staff Policies and Handbooks
Norman Campus Student Policies
Graduate College Bulletin
Back to top
Affirmative Action
Institutional Equity Office  |  (405) 325-2215  |
ieo@ou.edu
The Affirmative Action Plans are updated annually. That document includes the following:
Affirmative Action Plan under Executive Order 11246
Affirmative Action Plan under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
Affirmative Action Plan under the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Act of 1974, 38 U.S.C. 4212
Summary of Laws relevant to the Affirmative Action Plans
:
Executive Order 11246, as amended: "The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. The contractor will take affirmative action to insure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, or national origin."
Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973: "The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of physical or mental disability in regard to any position for which the employee or applicant for employment is qualified. The contractor agrees to take affirmative action to employ, advance in employment and otherwise treat qualified individuals without discrimination based upon their physical or mental disability in all employment practices."
Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, 38 U.S.C. 4212: "The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because he or she is a special disabled veteran, veteran of the Vietnam era, recently separated veteran, or other protected veteran in regard to any position for which the employee or applicant for employment is qualified. The contractor agrees to take affirmative action to employ, advance in employment and otherwise treat qualified individuals without discrimination based on their status as a special disabled veteran, veteran of the Vietnam era, recently separated veteran, or other protected veteran in all employment practices."
The University's Affirmative Action Plans are available for inspection in the Institutional Equity Office between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on any working day.
Back to top
Pay Transparency
In accordance with Executive Order 13665, the University of Oklahoma will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate against employees or applicants because they have inquired about, discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee or applicant. However, employees who have access to the compensation information of other employees or applicants as a part of their essential job functions cannot disclose the pay of other employees or applicants to individuals who do not otherwise have access to compensation information, unless the disclosure is (a) in response to a formal complaint or charge, (b) in furtherance of an investigation, proceeding, hearing, or action, including an investigation conducted by the employer, or (c) consistent with the university’s legal duty to furnish information.
Back to top
Disabilities
The University will reasonably accommodate otherwise qualified individuals with a disability unless such accommodation would pose an undue hardship or would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of the service, program or activity or would result in undue financial or administrative burdens. The term “reasonable accommodation” is used in its general sense in this policy to apply to employees, students and visitors.
Reasonable accommodation may include but is not limited to
:
Making existing facilities readily accessible and usable by individuals with disabilities;
Job restructuring;
Part-time or modified work schedules;
Reassignment to a vacant position if qualified;
Acquisition or modification of equipment or devices;
Adjustment or modification of examinations, training materials,
or policies;
Providing qualified readers or interpreters; or
Modifying policies, practices and procedures.
The campus maintains a website dedicated to accessibility and disability information and resources.
The Acccessibility and Disability Resource Center
, unless otherwise provided, is the central point-of-contact to receive all requests for reasonable accommodation and to receive all documentation required to determine disability status under law. This center will then make a recommendation on accommodation to the appropriate administrative unit. Reasonable accommodation with respect to employment matters should be coordinated with the Office of Human Resources. For more information, please see
https://hr.ou.edu/Policies-Handbooks/ADA-Services-for-Faculty-Staff
. Reasonable accommodation with respect to academic matters, including but not limited to faculty employment, should be coordinated with the Office of the Provost while all other issues of reasonable accommodation should be coordinated with the Office of the Vice President for Human Resources.
For information about federal disability related laws and information visit ada.gov
.
Complaints of disability discrimination may be brought through the University’s Institutional Equity Office
for Norman based programs: (405) 325-3546 and for Oklahoma City Health Sciences Center based programs: (405) 271-2110.
File a Report
Marci Gracey
Institutional Equity Officer & Title IX Coordinator
Interim ADA/504 Coordinator
Phone: 405-325-3546
Email:
mgracey@ou.edu
Institutional Equity Office
Evans Hall
660 Parrington Oval, Room 102
Norman, OK 73019
Phone: (405) 325-3546
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 10/29/2024 by
Institutional Equity Office
:
ieo@ou.edu