Skip Navigation
Student Life
Welcome to
Student Life
The mission of Student Life is to guide students in realizing academic, professional, and personal goals as they progress toward graduation and beyond.  The Office of Student Life is a department within the division of Student Affairs.
Student Life helps students to get involved and connect on campus through the various groups advised by the office.
Campus Programs
Campus Programs exists to engage with students throughout the year through a variety of events and programs. Most of these programs are student-led with an emphasis on developing leadership skills while also building community on campus. Campus Programs is comprised of the Campus Activities Council, OU Cousins, and Summer and Winter Programs!
More About Campus Programs
Fraternity and Sorority Programs and Services
More than 6,200 current students have chosen to join the Fraternity & Sorority community at the University of Oklahoma. Each of our 56 active chapters is a member of one of our five Greek councils and each offers unique opportunities for personal growth and meaningful experiences to 30% of University of Oklahoma students. Fraternity and Sorority Programs and Services strives to provide a safe, meaningful, and transformative membership experience for all Greek students at OU.
More About Fraternities and Sororities
Community Engagement
Evidence has shown that, in certain contexts, a student’s sense of belonging improves academic outcomes, increases continuing enrollment, and is protective for mental health. Student Life is dedicated to helping students find their home away from home while at OU and assisting students as they develop their sense of belonging.
More About Community Engagement
Get Involved
Whether you are a new student at OU or an upperclassman, we believe there is a place for everyone here.  There are a variety of ways to get involved on campus. With over 500 groups on campus and opportunities to create your own organizations, there is something for you at OU.
More About Getting Involved
Resources for Students
From Action Tutoring to Student Legal Services, OU offers all sorts of resources to students. We can help you start your journey finding the resources you need!
More About Resources for Students
Contact Student Life
Location
Oklahoma Memorial Union, Suite 428
900 Asp Avenue, Norman, OK 73019
Hours
Monday - Friday
9:00 AM - 5:00 PM CST
Phone
Phone: 405-325-3163
Fax: 405-325-7493
More Contact Information
Student Life
900 Asp Avenue, Suite 428
Norman, OK 73019
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 9/23/2024 by
Student Life
:
Qnguyen@ou.edu