Skip Navigation
Get Involved
OU Homepage
Search OU
The University of Oklahoma
Skip Side Navigation
Home
Campus Efforts
Sustainability Map
Academics and Research
Environmental Concerns Committee
Get Involved
Contact Us
Sustainability
/
Get Involved
Student Groups and Government
Student Environmental Council (SEC)
The
SEC’s
purpose is to house the various campus environmental groups and supply these groups with the resources to bring about positive environmental change and awareness in the surrounding communities through information dissemination with faculty, administrations, student body, and the community. The Student Environmental Council is not a governing body but acts as an information hub and support system for the earth conscious community.
Beekeepers' Association
The
Beekeepers' Association
strives to promote the vitality of pollination networks in the Norman area. The establishment, maintenance, and propagation of new colonies is their primary directive. Additional club affairs include increasing public pollinator awareness, furthering education and research, and volunteering in support of the environment.
Botanical Society
The
Botanical Society
creates the opportunity for non-majors and majors to collaborate in projects and activities involved with botanical science. Our focus is on education and public engagement.
Environmental Science Student Association (ESSA)
ESSA
aims to provide opportunities for future environmental engineers and scientists to build meaningful field experience and to assist the local community through volunteer work.
Green Week
Green Week
is an annual week-long event that was created in order to promote environmental sustainability and awareness on OU's campus. It takes place during April of each year and consists of fun and informative events where students are able to learn about how they can lessen their impact on the environment as well as help develop their community.
Undergraduate Student Congress’s Sustainability Committee
For more information contact the Undergraduate Student Congress at
congress@ou.edu
.
Graduate Student Senate’s Sustainability Committee
The Graduate Student Senate’s Sustainability Committee focuses on identifying policies and practices at the University, local, and global level that promote environmental awareness and the responsible use of natural resources. The committee recommends and coordinates initiatives to the University Community that promote environmental sustainability on campus and represents graduate student interest in sustainability with regard to legislation in the Graduate Student Senate.  For more information, contact
gss@ou.edu
.
Office of Sustainability
660 Parrington Oval
Norman, OK 73019
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Accreditation
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources & Offices
OU Report It!
Sustainability Social Media
facebook
twitter
instagram
more
Updated 2/24/2023 by
Office of Sustainability
:
sustainability@ou.edu