Skip Navigation
OU Faculty Member Co-Leading Innovative National Trial to Advance Lung Cancer Treatment
NEWS
Raid Aljumaily, M.D.
OU Faculty Member Co-Leading Innovative National Trial to Advance Lung Cancer Treatment
First study from NCI’s Clinical Trials Innovation Unit
By
April Wilkerson
april-j-wilkerson@ouhsc.edu
Date
Dec. 12, 2024
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLA. –
Raid Aljumaily, M.D., an associate professor of hematology-oncology at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, is the national co-leader of the PROSPECT-Lung clinical trial that will evaluate the timing of immunotherapy for patients with operable non-small cell lung cancer.
The trial is the first from the National Cancer Institute’s Clinical Trials Innovation Unit (CTIU), which was formed to accelerate the development of studies and to generate findings more applicable to the real-world population.
Lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer-related deaths in both women and men, making up about 20% of all cancer deaths. Non-small cell lung cancer accounts for 80-85% of cases, compared with small cell lung cancer. The burden is especially high in Oklahoma. According to the American Lung Association’s 2024 “State of Lung Cancer” report, Oklahoma ranks 47
th
in the nation for survival rates and 50
th
in the nation for lung cancer screening.
For many years, early-stage lung cancer was treated with surgery followed by chemotherapy, which reduced the possibility of the cancer returning by about 5%. Over the past few years, research has demonstrated that adding immunotherapy to the chemotherapy regimen reduced the chances of cancer recurrence by about 40%. The immunotherapy-chemotherapy regimen has been administered to patients both before and after surgery, but the medical community does not yet know which approach results in better health outcomes and is better tolerated by patients. The PROSPECT-Lung trial aims to fill that gap in knowledge.
Trial participants will be randomly assigned to two treatment plans, both of which have proved beneficial to patients. In one group, they will receive chemotherapy and immunotherapy, followed by surgery to remove the tumor and up to a year more of immunotherapy. In the other group, patients will have surgery first, followed by chemotherapy and up to a year of immunotherapy.
“From previous large studies, we know these treatments work, but this trial will allow us to compare the two approaches. We want to see which approach is better for helping patients live longer without a return of cancer and without severe complications from treatment,” said Aljumaily, a hematologist-oncologist at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center.
Three types of immunotherapy, all approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Association, will be part of the treatment protocol. Immunotherapy drugs have revolutionized the treatment of many cancers over the past decade, including lung cancer, because they help the body’s immune system recognize and kill cancer cells. Oncology clinical trials worldwide have incorporated immunotherapy medications, Aljumaily said, and they will likely advance cancer care for years to come.
As the first to open through the Clinical Trials Innovation Unit, the trial marks a significant step toward more pragmatic studies that yield evidence faster. Traditionally, clinical trial development is lengthy, inclusion and exclusion criteria are strict, and the process can be cumbersome. Studies like PROSPECT-Lung suit a streamlined approach because the treatments’ safety and effectiveness are already known.
“The trial is unique because it is designed to reflect real-world treatment decisions,” Aljumaily said. “We can generate evidence that is both scientifically rigorous and highly applicable to clinical practice.”
The PROSPECT-Lung trial will enroll 1,100 patients at numerous sites across the United States, including OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center. Aljumaily is the principal investigator and developed the trial for the SWOG Cancer Research Network, which is partnering with the Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology to lead the trial. Daniel Morgensztern, M.D., professor in the Division of Medical Oncology at Washington University, Siteman Cancer Center, is the principal investigator for Alliance. The trial is conducted within the NCI’s National Clinical Trials Network, funded by the National Institutes of Health, with participation from the NCI Community Oncology Research Program.
“PROSPECT-Lung may pave the way toward a future where clinical trials reduce the burden of participation for patients and investigators through real-world, pragmatic designs,” said Sheila Prindiville, M.D., MPH, director of the NCI Coordinating Center for Clinical Trials, part of the NIH. “PROSPECT-Lung is a critical component in NCI’s commitment to modernizing clinical trials.”
About the Project
For more information about the PROSPECT-Lung trial (also known as CTIU2317-A82304-S2402), please contact the NCI’s Cancer Information Service at 1-800-4-CANCER or visit the NCI website at
https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06632327
for a list of sites that have the trial open, or learn more at clinicaltrials.gov (NCT06632327).
About the University of Oklahoma
Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university with campuses in Norman, Oklahoma City and Tulsa. As the state’s flagship university, OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. In Oklahoma City, OU Health Sciences is one of the nation’s few academic health centers with seven health profession colleges located on the same campus. OU Health Sciences serves approximately 4,000 students in more than 70 undergraduate and graduate degree programs spanning Oklahoma City and Tulsa and is the leading research institution in Oklahoma. For more information about OU Health Sciences, visit
www.ouhsc.edu
.
Recent News
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 20, 2024
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
Read more
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
James George, M.D., and Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
Read more
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
More OU News
OU News
339 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73069
marcomm@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/12/2024 by
OU News
:
cmshelp@ou.edu