Skip Navigation
Registering with the ADRC
Registering with the ADRC
Link Drop-down options
Learn More About:
Before Registering
Registration Process
Registration Schedule (updated November 6, 2024)
Documentation Guidelines
Confidentiality
Before Registering with the ADRC
Students must meet all admission and academic standards and be formally admitted to the University of Oklahoma.
Definition of Disability
An individual with a
disability is defined by the ADA
as a person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, a person who has a history or record of such an impairment, or a person who is perceived by others as having such an impairment.
Back to Top
Registration Process
Fill out our pre-registration form to self-identify as a student with a disability and submit documentation to the Accessibility and Disability Resource Center
. Information regarding the documentation can be found in our
Documentation Guidelines
.
Once your documentation and registration form have been received, it will be reviewed within 5-15 university business days.
Please check your OU email account regularly because this is how we will contact you once your documentation has been reviewed.
If there is a need for additional documentation, this information will be provided in the email you receive from ADRC.
When you receive an email from ADRC, please follow the instructions in the email.
During the registration appointment, you and an ADRC Team member will discuss appropriate accommodations to provide equal educational opportunities.
Back to Top
Registration Schedule for Fall 2024: Updated November 6th, 2024
College of Law, Tulsa Campus and HSC:
Documentation and Pre-registration form for academic accommodations for Fall 2024 semester must be received by ADRC no later than November 18th to receive accommodations for Final Exams.
Fall 2024 semester signed accommodation forms returned and accommodation requests submitted no later than November 25th. These forms are received during or shortly after your ADRC meeting.
Norman Campus:
Documentation and Pre-registration form for academic accommodations for Fall 2024 semester must be received by ADRC no later than November 25th to receive accommodations for Final Exams.
Fall 2024 semester signed accommodation forms returned and accommodation requests submitted no later than December 2nd. These forms are received during or shortly after your ADRC meeting.
All Campuses:
Housing Registrations: we will work to meet with students before the housing deadlines (May 1st for Fall Housing and November 1st for Spring Housing). (Housing policy deadline for guaranteed accommodations; we will make a good faith effort for any student processed after those dates)
A publication by the Office for Civil Rights: Students with Disabilities Preparing for Post-Secondary Education: Know your Rights and Responsibilities
Back to Top
Documentation Guidelines
Fill out our pre-registration form to self-identify as a student with a disability and submit documentation to the Accessibility and Disability Resource Center.
Pre-Registration Form
Documentation may be uploaded to the form or sent to the Accessibility and Disability Resource Center via:
Email:
adrc@ou.edu
Fax: (405) 325-4491
Mail: 300 Kellogg Drive, Norman, OK, 73072.
We recommend documentation be uploaded to the form or sent via email to reduce the likelihood of potential delays in processing.
All documentation submitted should include the following:
Student Information: Student's first and last name, date of birth, and (optional) OU student ID Number.
Provider(s) Information: A printed name with credentials, license number, signature, and provider's facility. If documents are taken from patient-side record portals then they are expected to have as much information about the provider as possible. We understand that electronic records may look different than written documentation.
A diagnostic statement identifying the disability: Includes a statement clearly identifying the type of diagnosed disability. The provider should be qualified to diagnose and/or treat the disability for which they are providing documentation.
A description of the current functional limitations: Includes how the disability(ies) currently impacts the individual.
A description of the expected progression or stability of the disability: Includes expected changes to the functional impact (barriers) of the disability over time and context.
A description of current and past accommodations, services, and/or medications: Includes a description of applicable auxiliary aids, assistive devices, support services, accommodations, and any significant side effects from current medications or services that may impact physical, perceptual, behavioral, or cognitive performance.
Recommendations for accommodations, adaptive devices, assistive services, compensatory strategies, and/or collateral support services: Recommended accommodations and strategies should be logically related to functional limitations (barriers); if connections are not obvious, a clear explanation of their relationship is necessary in order to be considered as a potential reasonable accommodation.
Additional Documentation Guidelines
Temporary Medical Condition/ Temporary Disability
Expected length of temporary medical condition.
Pregnancy
Expected due date.
Housing
Statement of how disability impacts your housing and required accommodations for equal access.
Priority deadlines are as follows:
Entering the Fall Semester: May 1
Entering the Spring Semester: November 1
Emotional Support Animal
Why the animal is required for equal access.
Registering an ESA with the ADRC (pdf)
Back to Top
Confidentiality
All documentation of disability submitted to the Accessibility and Disability Resource Center will be held in confidence. Disability documentation provided by a physician, psychiatrist, psychologist, or other recognized health professional is not subject to free access under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA).
Back to Top
Accessibility and Disability Resource Center
University Community Center
730 College Avenue
Norman, OK  73019
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/12/2024 by
Accessibility and Disability Resource Center
:
adrc@ou.edu