Skip Navigation
OU Student Turns Passion for Numbers into a Career
NEWS
Rafael Ramos will graduate this fall with a Master of Accountancy from the University of Oklahoma. Image by Aaron Lindley.
OU Student Turns Passion for Numbers into a Career
By
Lorene Roberson
lar@ou.edu
Date
Dec. 12, 2024
NORMAN, OKLA.
–  For Rafael Ramos, growing up in Altus, Oklahoma, meant learning the value of hard work in his family’s restaurants. This December, he earns his second degree from the University of Oklahoma, a Master of Accountancy, as he prepares to launch his career with Ernst & Young.
“Accounting isn’t just about numbers – it’s about understanding their meaning and making a difference for businesses,” said Ramos, who also earned a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from OU in 2023.
Ramos discovered his passion for auditing in a class taught by OU faculty members Kevan Jensen, Ph.D., and Devin Williams, Ph.D., whose enthusiasm for auditing sparked a deeper interest. Faculty support, including mentorship from Joe Dulin, director of the Master of Accountancy Program at OU, helped Ramos secure internships at top firms, including Ernst & Young in Oklahoma City where he will begin working as an associate after graduation.
Growing up, Ramos gained firsthand experience in business by working at his family’s restaurants, Araceli’s Restaurant and The Plaza Mexican Restaurant. He managed daily finances, oversaw inventory, coordinated with vendors and supervised more than 50 employees. “What I have learned at OU and through my internships will help me give back to my family’s businesses,” he said.
Balancing school, internships, leadership roles and a new marriage was challenging. Ramos married Jordan Guerrero Ramos, who earned a Bachelor of Arts in psychology with a 4.0 grade-point average from OU last year. As Beta Upsilon Chi’s treasurer, Ramos managed a $200,000 budget and 175 members, gaining experience in financial oversight and team collaboration. He also has served as a graduate teaching assistant to assistant professor of accounting Meng Li, Ph.D., helping in courses like Intermediate II Accounting, Planning and Operations Management, and Managerial Economics.
“Prioritization and organization were key,” Ramos said. “My time at OU prepared me to adapt and succeed in any challenge.”
About the University of Oklahoma
Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university located in Norman, Oklahoma. As the state’s flagship university, OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. For more information about the university, visit
www.ou.edu
.
Recent News
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 20, 2024
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
Read more
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
James George, M.D., and Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
Read more
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
More OU News
OU News
339 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73069
marcomm@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/12/2024 by
OU News
:
cmshelp@ou.edu