Skip Navigation
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
NEWS
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
By
April Wilkerson
april-j-wilkerson@ou.edu
Date
Dec. 20, 2024
OKLAHOMA CITY –
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
In the role, Benbrook will oversee planning and initiatives designed to facilitate the translation of ideas from basic science discovery to clinical trials. She will also play a pivotal role in overseeing the advancement of ideas through the development pipeline. As a key member of Stephenson Cancer Center’s leadership team, she will provide strategic guidance as the center advances toward its goal of achieving NCI Comprehensive Designation.
“Research conducted at Stephenson Cancer Center has the potential to enhance patient care outcomes. I am eager to contribute my expertise and experience in translating scientific breakthroughs into clinical trials. This leadership position offers an incredible opportunity to establish a structured approach for promoting translational research. The implementation of this process could have a significant and far-reaching impact on healthcare outcomes,” said Benbrook, whose faculty appointment is in the Section of Gynecologic Oncology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, in the OU College of Medicine.
Benbrook has been with the OU College of Medicine for more than 30 years, focusing her research on understanding cancer development and progression and developing no- to low-toxicity drugs to intercept and treat cancer and other diseases. In 2022, her decades of team-building, leadership and working with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration resulted in a new drug being studied in humans for the first time in a Phase 1 clinical trial at Stephenson Cancer Center.
Called OK-1 (more formally, Sulfur Heteroarotinoid A2, or SHetA2), the drug marks a historic first for the campus and state: It was developed entirely in Oklahoma without the support of a pharmaceutical company. OK-1 is derived from the natural compound vitamin A and modified to kill cancer cells while being less toxic to healthy cells.
Preclinical testing of OK-1 was funded by several National Cancer Institute programs, including Rapid Access to Intervention Development (RAID), Rapid Access to Preventive Intervention Development (RAPID), and PREVENT Cancer Preclinical Drug Development. The funding also supported the Good Manufacturing Production of drug capsules required for clinical trials by the FDA. Two Oklahoma entities have also supported Benbrook’s work over the years: Presbyterian Health Foundation and the OU College of Medicine Alumni Association.
Throughout this process, Benbrook developed a curriculum to assist others in the translation of their drugs and devices for clinical applications. In recognition of her efforts, she was awarded the title of Master Mentor by the Oklahoma Shared Clinical and Translational Resources, a federally funded program on the OU Health Sciences campus. Benbrook also holds several national leadership roles that provide networking opportunities to develop and participate in multi-institutional trials, including serving as co-leader of the GYN Target Group of the MW Clinical Prevention Trials Network and member of the NRG Oncology and GOG Partners Investigator Council Translational Research Committees.
She has considerable knowledge of NCI-Designated Cancer Centers through her membership in the NCI Cancer Centers Study Section, which she now chairs. She also currently serves as a partnering principal investigator for a Department of Defense grant, and she is one of multiple principal investigators on the NCI Route 66 Endometrial Cancer SPORE grant, in collaboration with the Siteman Cancer Center in St. Louis and the University of New Mexico Cancer Center
Benbrook earned a doctorate in biochemistry from Loyola University Medical School in Illinois and conducted postdoctoral and research fellowships
About the University of Oklahoma
Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university with campuses in Norman, Oklahoma City and Tulsa. As the state’s flagship university, OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. In Oklahoma City, OU Health Sciences is one of the nation’s few academic health centers with seven health profession colleges located on the same campus. OU Health Sciences serves approximately 4,000 students in more than 70 undergraduate and graduate degree programs spanning Oklahoma City and Tulsa and is the leading research institution in Oklahoma. For more information about OU Health Sciences, visit
www.ouhsc.edu
.
Recent News
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 20, 2024
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
Read more
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
James George, M.D., and Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
Read more
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
More OU News
OU News
339 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73069
marcomm@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/20/2024 by
OU News
:
cmshelp@ou.edu