Skip Navigation
OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center Receives $10 Million Gift to Support Expansion to Tulsa
NEWS
OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center Receives $10 Million Gift to Support Expansion to Tulsa
Media Contact
ounews@ou.edu
Date
Dec. 9, 2024
NORMAN, OKLA.
– OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center has received a $10 million gift from Jim Norton, his late wife Ronda, and their daughters, Christy Trussell and Leslie Croteau, to support its expansion to the University of Oklahoma-Tulsa.
This significant investment will help establish a state-of-the-art facility at OU-Tulsa, extending Stephenson Cancer Center’s advanced, research-driven cancer care and lifesaving clinical trials to the people of northeastern Oklahoma. The family’s gift honors Jim and Ronda Norton’s late daughter Melanie Elizabeth Norton Cheek by providing close-to-home cancer care for even more Oklahomans.
“My family has been blessed by Oklahomans. Both sets of my grandparents arrived in Oklahoma before statehood, and I’m proud to have been born and raised here,” Jim Norton said. “My daughter died of cervical cancer in April 2023. Because of the excellent care she received, she lived with cancer for four years instead of the one year we were told she would have after she had a hysterectomy.
“We want to honor Melanie’s life with this gift, and we hope that we can encourage others to step forward to help our neighbors and friends in northeastern Oklahoma have their very own cancer treatment center closer to home.”
As the state’s sole National Cancer Institute-designated cancer center, Stephenson Cancer Center's expansion to Tulsa is facilitated by a robust public-private partnership involving key stakeholders like Charles and Peggy Stephenson, the Cherokee Nation and the Oklahoma Legislature.
“My family is proud to be among the people – along with fellow Tulsans Charlie and Peggy Stephenson – who are committed to making it easier for people to get cancer treatment as well as proper screenings so they can be diagnosed sooner and have a better chance of survival,” Norton said. “What we all truly want is a cure for cancer, but until then, we’ll do what we can to make a positive impact.”
The center’s expansion to Tulsa was announced in spring 2024 and fulfills a longtime goal for OU Health and the Stephenson Family.
“Jim’s generosity reminds me that we are all connected in this journey to bring healing and hope to Oklahoma,” Peggy Stephenson said. “His choice to honor Melanie’s life through this gift is a blessing, and it strengthens all of us who believe in the mission of the Stephenson Cancer Center. Charles and I are so grateful for his support.”
Norton’s generosity will provide significant support for the construction of the Tulsa facility and underscores the collaborative nature of this project, which is aimed at enhancing cancer care in northeastern Oklahoma.
“I’m deeply moved by Jim’s gift, which comes from an incredible belief in Stephenson Cancer Center’s work and a selfless commitment to honoring Melanie’s memory by making cancer treatment more accessible to countless Oklahomans,” said OU President Joseph Harroz Jr.  “Jim’s support and strength show not only his tremendous care for his daughter’s legacy, but his passion for encouraging others to support the Stephenson Cancer Center’s Tulsa expansion so families like his can access the best possible care while remaining close to home. It’s gifts like his that help us change health outcomes across the state and region.”
“The expansion of Stephenson Cancer Center to Tulsa is a critical step in our commitment to eliminate barriers for Oklahomans to access top-tier cancer care close to home,” said Robert Mannel, M.D., director of Stephenson Cancer Center. “Philanthropy is vital to fulfill our mission to serve all Oklahomans. I am profoundly grateful for Jim and his family’s extraordinary gift. The impact of their generosity will be felt by patients and their families for generations to come.”
About the University of Oklahoma
Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university located in Norman, Oklahoma. As the state’s flagship university, OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. OU was named the state’s highest-ranking university in
U.S. News & World Report’s
most recent Best Colleges list
.
For more information about the university, visit
www.ou.edu
.
About OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center is Oklahoma’s only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center. Ranked among the top 2% of cancer centers in the country, Stephenson Cancer Center is the largest and most comprehensive oncology practice in the state and delivers patient-centered, multidisciplinary care for every type of cancer. As one of the nation’s leading research organizations, the center uses the latest innovations to fight and eliminate cancer. For more information, visit
stephensoncancercenter.org
.
About the OU Foundation
The University of Oklahoma Foundation is an independent charitable organization that facilitates and manages philanthropic gifts to support the University of Oklahoma. With a culture of integrity, skill and persistence, we align the passions of donors and our alumni with the indelible mission of the University of Oklahoma.
Recent News
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 20, 2024
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
Read more
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
James George, M.D., and Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
Read more
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
More OU News
OU News
339 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73069
marcomm@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/9/2024 by
OU News
:
cmshelp@ou.edu