Skip Navigation
Campus Safety
THE DEPARTMENT OF CAMPUS SAFETY
The
Department of Campus Safety
reports to the OU Vice President of Operations and is composed of the following elements:
Emergency Management
(Unmanned Aerial Systems, Trespass Appeals, AED's, other general safety areas)
Fire Marshal's Office
(Fire Safety, Special Events)
Max Westheimer Airport Operations
Building, Mechanical, Electrical & Plumbing Code Compliance
Campus Weather Monitoring
(Event Weather Safety and Support)
Our Mission is to assist in providing a safe environment for the University's students, faculty, staff, and visitors through education, planning, monitoring, enforcement codes, regulations and standards.
Our objective is to achieve a University culture that emphasizes safety.  This includes maintenance of life safety systems, safe buildings, events and activities, and emergency planning in a manner that enhances the quality of the University's campus operations and the lives of students, faculty, staff, and visitors.
Campus Information
OU Police Department
EMERGENCY: Call 9-1-1
NON-EMERGENCY: Call (405) 325-1717
ou.edu/police
COVID Updates
CDC GUIDLINES
cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov
Severe Weather
Important TORNADO REFUGE information for Spring 2023 (PDF)
Your browser does not support iframes.
The Great Eight For Your In-Home Tornado Refuge Area
Tennis Shoes:
Glass is the most vulnerable exterior material in your house. You don't want to be barefoot or in your socks if your windows break.
Bicycle Helmet
: Prevention of head injury is the most important action should your house be hit by a tornado.
Bottled Water & Snacks
: If you DO get stranded in your place of refuge, you will want plenty of water to get you through.
Leash For Your Pet
: Take your pets WITH you to your shelter and put them on a leash.
Battery Operated Radio/Weather Radio
: Buy one! It is worth it.  If your power goes out, you will want to be able to hear what is happening in your area.
First Aid Kit
: You should have one anyway!
Flashlight (New Batteries)
: Power outages are the most likely impact with storms in your area.  You likely already have one! Put new batteries in it now!
Phone Charger
: A tornado watch should prompt you to put your phone on a charger.  Take a full-battery portable phone charger with you to your refuge area.
*If there is time, close all doors, especially the interior bathroom/closet/hallway doors.
Advance Planning is Essential
Be familiar with at least
TWO
fire exits in your area in case one is blocked or unusable.
Know the locations of the Blue Emergency Phones in your area.
Upon Discovery of a Fire:
Call 911 to reach the OU Police Department.
Activate the fire alarm and give a verbal alarm to others. Fire alarm pulls are generally located near the exits.
If it is safe to do so and does not impede your evacuation, quickly gather your personal belongings and proceed to your nearest exit.
In multi-level buildings, exit using the stairways only.
DO NOT USE ELEVATORS.
If it is safe to do so on your way out, close all doors leading to the main hallways to prevent further spread of the fire.
NEVER
prop stairwell doors open as this will allow smoke and heat to enter the stairwell.
Once outside, move to your
Emergency Assembly Area.
Keep roadways and walkways clear for emergency vehicles. Remain upwind from smoke and fumes.
Wait for further instructions from OU Police or emergency personnel.
DO NOT RE-ENTER THE BUILDING UNTIL INSTRUCTED TO DO SO
by OU Police or properly identified emergency personnel.
If your clothes are on fire, stop, drop to the floor and roll covering your face with your hands. Smother the fire with a blanket, rug or heavy coat. Call for help. If you encounter heavy smoke stay low to the floor.
Department of Campus Safety
160-B Felgar Street, Suite 200
Norman, OK 73019
Fax: (405) 325-7238
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 10/4/2023 by
Department of Campus Safety
:
CampusSafety@ou.edu