Skip Navigation
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
NEWS
James George, M.D., (left) receives the Award for Leadership in Promoting Diversity from the American Society of Hematology. Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., (right) will serve a four-year term as councilor of the American Society of Hematology. Image by Kat Gebauer.
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
By
April Wilkerson
april-j-wilkerson@ouhsc.edu
Date
Dec. 18, 2024
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLA. –
Two
University of Oklahoma Health Sciences faculty members were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
James George, M.D., a George Lynn Cross Research Professor in the OU College of Medicine and Hudson College of Public Health, was honored with the ASH Award for Leadership in Promoting Diversity. During his career in academic medicine, George has helped to build a stronger hematology workforce by mentoring the next generation of hematologists.
Under his leadership as ASH president in 2005, the society collaborated with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation’s Harold Amos Medical Faculty Development Program (AMFDP) to create ASH-funded AMFDP positions in hematology. Since the program’s inception, ASH has supported nearly 30 recipients, many of whom have risen to the ranks of senior faculty in their institutions.
George was also a strong supporter of the ASH Medical Student Award Program, which provides research support for medical students underrepresented in medicine to encourage them to pursue hematology. To date, the program has supported more than 300 research opportunities for medical students. Additionally, George co-developed and directed the ASH Clinical Research Training Institute, an inclusive yearlong program that offers broad education for clinicians on clinical research methods.
Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., a professor in the OU College of Medicine and hematologist-oncologist at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, was elected to serve a four-year term as an ASH councilor.
Holter-Chakrabarty’s research background is in leukemia, transplantation and imaging of marrow failure syndromes. An active ASH member since 2003, she is chair of the Committee on Government Affairs, co-chair of the Advocacy Leadership Institute, and served as an appointed member on the Guideline Oversight Committee.
About the University of Oklahoma
Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university with campuses in Norman, Oklahoma City and Tulsa. As the state’s flagship university, OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. In Oklahoma City, OU Health Sciences is one of the nation’s few academic health centers with seven health profession colleges located on the same campus. OU Health Sciences serves approximately 4,000 students in more than 70 undergraduate and graduate degree programs spanning Oklahoma City and Tulsa and is the leading research institution in Oklahoma. For more information about OU Health Sciences, visit
www.ouhsc.edu
.
Recent News
Research
December 20, 2024
Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Doris Benbrook, Ph.D., a Presbyterian Health Foundation Presidential Professor at the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, has been named Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center, the only National Cancer Institute-Designated Cancer Center in Oklahoma.
Read more
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Read article: Benbrook Appointed Associate Director for Translational Research at OU Health Stephenson Cancer Center
Campus & Community
December 20, 2024
Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
The Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences will gain a new deputy director, Matthew Potthoff, Ph.D., effective January 1. Potthoff will also hold the title of Harold Hamm Endowed Chair in Clinical Diabetes Research and professor of biochemistry and physiology, with a secondary appointment in the division of neurology in the OU School of Medicine.
Read more
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Read article: Harold Hamm Diabetes Center at the University of Oklahoma announces new deputy director.
Campus & Community
December 18, 2024
American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
James George, M.D., and Jennifer Holter-Chakrabarty, M.D., were recognized by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) during its annual meeting Dec. 7-10.
Read more
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
Read article: American Society of Hematology Recognizes Two OU Health Sciences Faculty
More OU News
OU News
339 W. Boyd St.
Norman, OK 73069
marcomm@ou.edu
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 12/18/2024 by
OU News
:
cmshelp@ou.edu