Skip Navigation
Sue Alcock
Susan E. (Sue) Alcock
Barnett Family Professor of Classical Archaeology; Professor of Classics and Letters
Email:
sue.alcock@ou.edu
| Office: Carnegie 121 |
Full CV (pdf)
Sue Alcock is the inaugural holder of the Barnett Family Professorship of Classical Archaeology at the University of Oklahoma. Her research interests include the Hellenistic and Roman East, landscape archaeology, archaeological survey, and archaeologies of memory and of imperialism.
Her books include:
Graecia Capta: The Landscapes of Roman Greece
(1993) and
Archaeologies of the Greek Past: Landscape, Monuments, and Memories
(2002); and, as co-editor,
Archaeologies of Memory
(2003),
Side-by-Side Survey:
Comparative Regional Studies in the Mediterranean World
(2004),
Classical
Archaeology: Blackwell Studies in Global Archaeology
(2nd edn. 2012), and
Beyond
Boundaries: Connecting Visual Cultures in the Provinces of Ancient Rome
(2016).
She has also authored numerous articles.  Alcock has conducted fieldwork in Greece, Armenia and in Jordan, for example, directing the Brown University Petra Archaeological Project.
Before coming to OU, Alcock taught in the Department of Classical Studies at the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor, where she was the John H. D’Arms Collegiate Professor of Classical Archaeology and Classics. From 2006-2015, she served at Brown University as the inaugural Director of the Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World, and as Joukowsky Family Professor.
In 2015 she returned to Michigan as Special Counsel for Institutional Outreach and Engagement and Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of Classical Archaeology and Classics. Alcock also has held the positions of Interim Provost of the University of Michigan-Flint, and Provost of the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Alcock holds a doctorate in classical archaeology and classics from the University of Cambridge, UK, and bachelor’s degrees from Cambridge and from Yale University. She is a 2001 recipient of a MacArthur Fellowship and is a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy, a Corresponding Member of the German Archaeological Institute, and an Honorary Fellow of Clare College, Cambridge.
Department of Classics and Letters
650 Parrington Oval, CARN 110
Norman, OK 73019-4042
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
OU Report It!
Updated 8/3/2023 by
Department of Classics and Letters
:
classicsandletters@ou.edu